spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/azure-openai-image.adoc, before:

= Azure OpenAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports DALL-E, the Image generation model from Azure OpenAI.

== Prerequisites

Obtain your Azure OpenAI `endpoint` and `api-key` from the Azure OpenAI Service section on the link:https://portal.azure.com[Azure Portal].
Spring AI defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Azure.
There is also a configuration property named `spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint` that you should set to the endpoint URL obtained when provisioning your model in Azure.
Exporting environment variables is one way to set these configuration properties:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<INSERT ENDPOINT URL HERE>
----

=== Deployment Name

To use run Azure AI applications, create an Azure AI Deployment through the [Azure AI Portal](https://oai.azure.com/portal).

In Azure, each client must specify a `Deployment Name` to connect to the Azure OpenAI service.

It's essential to understand that the `Deployment Name` is different from the model you choose to deploy

For instance, a deployment named 'MyImgAiDeployment' could be configured to use either the `Dalle3`  model or the `Dalle2` model.

For now, to keep things simple, you can create a deployment using the following settings:

Deployment Name: `MyImgAiDeployment`
Model Name: `Dalle3`

This Azure configuration will align with the default configurations of the Spring Boot Azure AI Starter and its Autoconfiguration feature.

If you use a different Deployment Name, update the configuration property accordingly:

```
spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.deployment-name=<my deployment name>
```

The different deployment structures of Azure OpenAI and OpenAI leads to a property in the Azure OpenAI client library named `deploymentOrModelName`.
This is because in OpenAI there is no `Deployment Name`, only a `Model Name`.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure OpenAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-azure-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-azure-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties


The prefix `spring.ai.openai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.enabled | Enable OpenAI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.n            | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For dall-e-3, only n=1 is supported.  | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.model        | The model to use for image generation.  | AzureOpenAiImageOptions.DEFAULT_IMAGE_MODEL
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.quality      | The quality of the image that will be generated. HD creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.response_format | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of URL or b64_json. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size`       | The size of the generated images. Must be one of 256x256, 512x512, or 1024x1024 for dall-e-2. Must be one of 1024x1024, 1792x1024, or 1024x1792 for dall-e-3 models. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_width` | The width of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2.  | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_height`| The height of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.style`      | The style of the generated images. Must be one of vivid or natural. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.user`       | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help Azure OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint   | The URL to connect to |  https://my-dalle3.openai.azure.com/
| spring.ai.azure.openai.apiKey    | The API Key           |  -
|====

== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `AzureOpenAiImageModel(OpenAiImageApi openAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(OpenAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the OpenAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = azureOpenaiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        OpenAiImageOptions.builder()
                .quality("hd")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiImageOptions.java[AzureOpenAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/azure-openai-image.adoc, after:

= Azure OpenAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports DALL-E, the Image generation model from Azure OpenAI.

== Prerequisites

Obtain your Azure OpenAI `endpoint` and `api-key` from the Azure OpenAI Service section on the link:https://portal.azure.com[Azure Portal].
Spring AI defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Azure.
There is also a configuration property named `spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint` that you should set to the endpoint URL obtained when provisioning your model in Azure.
Exporting environment variables is one way to set these configuration properties:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<INSERT ENDPOINT URL HERE>
----

=== Deployment Name

To use run Azure AI applications, create an Azure AI Deployment through the [Azure AI Portal](https://oai.azure.com/portal).

In Azure, each client must specify a `Deployment Name` to connect to the Azure OpenAI service.

It's essential to understand that the `Deployment Name` is different from the model you choose to deploy

For instance, a deployment named 'MyImgAiDeployment' could be configured to use either the `Dalle3`  model or the `Dalle2` model.

For now, to keep things simple, you can create a deployment using the following settings:

Deployment Name: `MyImgAiDeployment`
Model Name: `Dalle3`

This Azure configuration will align with the default configurations of the Spring Boot Azure AI Starter and its Autoconfiguration feature.

If you use a different Deployment Name, update the configuration property accordingly:

```
spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.deployment-name=<my deployment name>
```

The different deployment structures of Azure OpenAI and OpenAI leads to a property in the Azure OpenAI client library named `deploymentOrModelName`.
This is because in OpenAI there is no `Deployment Name`, only a `Model Name`.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure OpenAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-azure-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-azure-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.image=azure-openai (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.image=none (or any value which doesn't match azure-openai)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable OpenAI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.model.image | Enable OpenAI image model.  | azure-openai
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.n            | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For dall-e-3, only n=1 is supported.  | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.model        | The model to use for image generation.  | AzureOpenAiImageOptions.DEFAULT_IMAGE_MODEL
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.quality      | The quality of the image that will be generated. HD creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.response_format | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of URL or b64_json. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size`       | The size of the generated images. Must be one of 256x256, 512x512, or 1024x1024 for dall-e-2. Must be one of 1024x1024, 1792x1024, or 1024x1792 for dall-e-3 models. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_width` | The width of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2.  | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_height`| The height of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.style`      | The style of the generated images. Must be one of vivid or natural. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.user`       | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help Azure OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint   | The URL to connect to |  https://my-dalle3.openai.azure.com/
| spring.ai.azure.openai.apiKey    | The API Key           |  -
|====

== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `AzureOpenAiImageModel(OpenAiImageApi openAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(OpenAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.azure.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the OpenAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = azureOpenaiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        OpenAiImageOptions.builder()
                .quality("hd")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiImageOptions.java[AzureOpenAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].
