spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/stabilityai-image.adoc, before:

= Stability AI Image Generation

Spring AI supports Stability AI's https://platform.stability.ai/docs/api-reference#tag/v1generation[text to image generation model].

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API key with Stability AI to access their AI models, follow their https://platform.stability.ai/docs/getting-started/authentication[Getting Started documentation].

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.stabilityai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Stability AI.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property.

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_STABILITYAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Stability AI Image Generation Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-stability-ai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-stability-ai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.


=== Image Generation Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.stabilityai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to Stability AI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.stabilityai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.stability.ai/v1
| spring.ai.stabilityai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.stabilityai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for Stability AI.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.enabled | Enable Stability AI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.base-url              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide a specific url |  `https://api.stability.ai/v1`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.api-key              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide a specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.n               | The number of images to be generated. Must be between 1 and 10.                                                            | 1
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.model                 | The engine/model to use in Stability AI. The model is passed in the URL as a path parameter.          | `stable-diffusion-v1-6`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.width                 | Width of the image to generate, in pixels, in an increment divisible by 64. Engine-specific dimension validation applies. | 512
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.height               | Height of the image to generate, in pixels, in an increment divisible by 64. Engine-specific dimension validation applies.| 512
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.responseFormat        | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be "application/json" or "image/png".                         | -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.cfg_scale             | The strictness level of the diffusion process adherence to the prompt text. Range: 0 to 35.                               | 7
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.clip_guidance_preset  | Pass in a style preset to guide the image model towards a particular style. This list of style presets is subject to change. | `NONE`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.sampler               | Which sampler to use for the diffusion process. If this value is omitted, an appropriate sampler will be automatically selected. | -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.seed                  | Random noise seed (omit this option or use 0 for a random seed). Valid range: 0 to 4294967295.                             | 0
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.steps                 | Number of diffusion steps to run. Valid range: 10 to 50.                                                                   | 30
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.style_preset          | Pass in a style preset to guide the image model towards a particular style. This list of style presets is subject to change. | -
|====


== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-stabilityai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/stabilityai/api/StabilityAiImageOptions.java[StabilityAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the style, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `StabilityAiImageModel(StabilityAiApi stabilityAiApi, StabilityAiImageOptions options)` constructor. Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime, you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the Stability AI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = stabilityaiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        StabilityAiImageOptions.builder()
                .stylePreset("cinematic")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-stabilityai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/stabilityai/api/StabilityAiImageOptions.java[StabilityAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/stabilityai-image.adoc, after:

= Stability AI Image Generation

Spring AI supports Stability AI's https://platform.stability.ai/docs/api-reference#tag/v1generation[text to image generation model].

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API key with Stability AI to access their AI models, follow their https://platform.stability.ai/docs/getting-started/authentication[Getting Started documentation].

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.stabilityai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Stability AI.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property.

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_STABILITYAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Stability AI Image Generation Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-stability-ai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-stability-ai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.


=== Image Generation Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.stabilityai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to Stability AI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.stabilityai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.stability.ai/v1
| spring.ai.stabilityai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.image=stabilityai (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.image=none (or any value which doesn't match stabilityai)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.stabilityai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for Stability AI.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable Stability AI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.model.image | Enable Stability AI image model.  | stabilityai
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.base-url              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide a specific url |  `https://api.stability.ai/v1`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.api-key              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide a specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.n               | The number of images to be generated. Must be between 1 and 10.                                                            | 1
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.model                 | The engine/model to use in Stability AI. The model is passed in the URL as a path parameter.          | `stable-diffusion-v1-6`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.width                 | Width of the image to generate, in pixels, in an increment divisible by 64. Engine-specific dimension validation applies. | 512
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.height               | Height of the image to generate, in pixels, in an increment divisible by 64. Engine-specific dimension validation applies.| 512
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.responseFormat        | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be "application/json" or "image/png".                         | -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.cfg_scale             | The strictness level of the diffusion process adherence to the prompt text. Range: 0 to 35.                               | 7
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.clip_guidance_preset  | Pass in a style preset to guide the image model towards a particular style. This list of style presets is subject to change. | `NONE`
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.sampler               | Which sampler to use for the diffusion process. If this value is omitted, an appropriate sampler will be automatically selected. | -
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.seed                  | Random noise seed (omit this option or use 0 for a random seed). Valid range: 0 to 4294967295.                             | 0
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.steps                 | Number of diffusion steps to run. Valid range: 10 to 50.                                                                   | 30
| spring.ai.stabilityai.image.option.style_preset          | Pass in a style preset to guide the image model towards a particular style. This list of style presets is subject to change. | -
|====


== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-stabilityai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/stabilityai/api/StabilityAiImageOptions.java[StabilityAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the style, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `StabilityAiImageModel(StabilityAiApi stabilityAiApi, StabilityAiImageOptions options)` constructor. Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime, you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the Stability AI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = stabilityaiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        StabilityAiImageOptions.builder()
                .stylePreset("cinematic")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-stabilityai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/stabilityai/api/StabilityAiImageOptions.java[StabilityAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].
