spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/zhipuai-image.adoc, before:

= ZhiPuAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports CogView, the Image generation model from ZhiPuAI.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with ZhiPuAI to access ZhiPu AI language models.

Create an account at https://open.bigmodel.cn/login[ZhiPu AI registration page] and generate the token on the https://open.bigmodel.cn/usercenter/apikeys[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from https://open.bigmodel.cn/usercenter/apikeys[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_ZHIPU_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----
=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the ZhiPuAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-zhipuai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-zhipuai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.zhipuai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for ZhiPuAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.enabled        | Enable ZhiPuAI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.base-url       | Optional overrides the spring.ai.zhipuai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.api-key        | Optional overrides the spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.model  | The model to use for image generation.  | cogview-3
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.user   | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help ZhiPuAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.zhipuai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to ZhiPuAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.zhipuai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://open.bigmodel.cn/api/paas
| spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties


==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the ZhiPuAI Image client.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====


== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-zhipuai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/zhipuai/ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java[ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `ZhiPuAiImageModel(ZhiPuAiImageApi zhiPuAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(ZhiPuAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the ZhiPuAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = zhiPuAiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        ZhiPuAiImageOptions.builder()
                .quality("hd")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-zhipuai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/zhipuai/ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java[ZhiPuAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/image/zhipuai-image.adoc, after:

= ZhiPuAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports CogView, the Image generation model from ZhiPuAI.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with ZhiPuAI to access ZhiPu AI language models.

Create an account at https://open.bigmodel.cn/login[ZhiPu AI registration page] and generate the token on the https://open.bigmodel.cn/usercenter/apikeys[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from https://open.bigmodel.cn/usercenter/apikeys[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_ZHIPU_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----
=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the ZhiPuAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-zhipuai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-zhipuai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.image=stabilityai (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.image=none (or any value which doesn't match stabilityai)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.zhipuai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageModel` implementation for ZhiPuAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.enabled (Removed and no longer valid)       | Enable ZhiPuAI image model.  | true
| spring.ai.model.image       | Enable ZhiPuAI image model.  | zhipuai
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.base-url       | Optional overrides the spring.ai.zhipuai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.api-key        | Optional overrides the spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.model  | The model to use for image generation.  | cogview-3
| spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.user   | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help ZhiPuAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.zhipuai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to ZhiPuAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.zhipuai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://open.bigmodel.cn/api/paas
| spring.ai.zhipuai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties


==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the ZhiPuAI Image client.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====


== Runtime Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-zhipuai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/zhipuai/ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java[ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `ZhiPuAiImageModel(ZhiPuAiImageApi zhiPuAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(ZhiPuAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.zhipuai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the ZhiPuAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = zhiPuAiImageModel.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        ZhiPuAiImageOptions.builder()
                .quality("hd")
                .N(4)
                .height(1024)
                .width(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-zhipuai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/zhipuai/ZhiPuAiImageOptions.java[ZhiPuAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].
