spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/contribution-guidelines.adoc, before:

[[contribution-guidelines]]
= Contribution Guidelines

== Code Formatting and Javadoc

Before submitting a PR, please run the following commands to ensure proper formatting and Javadoc processing

```
./mvnw spring-javaformat:apply javadoc:javadoc -Pjavadoc
```

The `-Pjavadoc` is a profile that enables Javadoc processing so as to avoid a long build time when developing.

== Contributing a New AI Model Implementation

This section outlines the steps for contributing a new AI model implementation.
AI models vary significantly, with diverse inputs and outputs -- from chat models that
translate text input into text output, to text-to-image models that generate images
from text descriptions.
Complex models may even handle multiple types of input and output, such as combining text,
images, and videos to produce mixed media output.

To contribute a new model, adhere to the following steps:

. *Create a Low-Level Client API Class*: If no existing Java client suits the AI model,
you'll need to develop a low-level client API class. This often involves utilizing the
`RestClient` class from the Spring Framework, similar to the `OpenAiApi` class.

. *Create a Model implementation*
Ensure your client conforms to the link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/generic-model.html[Generic Model API].
Use existing request and response classes if your model's inputs and outputs are supported.
If not, create new classes for the Generic Model API and establish a new Java package.

. *Implement Auto-Configuration and a Spring Boot Starter*: This step involves creating the
necessary auto-configuration and Spring Boot Starter to easily instantiate the new model with
Spring Boot applications.

. *Write Tests*: All new classes should be accompanied by comprehensive tests.
Existing tests can serve as a useful reference for structuring and implementing your tests.

. *Document Your Contribution*: Ensure your documentation follows the existing format,
For an example of the suggested structure and formatting, refer to the
link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/chat/openai-chat.html[Open AI Chat documentation].

By following these guidelines, we can greatly expand the framework's range of supported models
while following a common implementation and documentation pattern.

Commit message:

Introduce PII marker for logging sensitive data
Introduce a utility class `LoggingMarkers` providing an SLF4J marker for tagging log entries with Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Update `BeanOutputConverter` to use the `PII_MARKER` in error logs for invalid JSON conversions. Enhance tests to verify PII marker usage in logging.

 - Set Java version dynamically and configure Kotlin compiler

 - Updated Maven configurations to dynamically reference the Java version using `${java.version}`. Added Kotlin compiler settings, including `jvmTarget` alignment with Java version and enabling `javaParameters`. This ensures consistency and better compatibility across builds.

 - Fix log assertion in BeanOutputConverterTest to use Java 17

 - Updated the test to assert log size explicitly before accessing the first log entry. This ensures the test is more robust and avoids potential issues with accessing logs unexpectedly.

 - Use placeholders in logger.error to prevent string concatenation.

 - Replaced string concatenation with a placeholder in the logger.error call to improve performance and maintain consistency with logging best practices. This helps avoid unnecessary overhead when logging is disabled.

 - Update logging markers and improve data classification

 - Replaced `PII_MARKER` with `SENSITIVE_DATA_MARKER`. Introduced `RESTRICTED_DATA_MARKER`, `REGULATED_DATA_MARKER` and `PUBLIC_DATA_MARKER`

 - Updated associated logging logic and tests to reflect these changes.

 - Fix punctuation in Javadoc comments for LoggingMarkers.

 - Added missing periods to improve consistency and clarity in the Javadoc comments. This change ensures proper formatting and adheres to standard writing conventions.

Signed-off-by: Konstantin Pavlov <{ID}+{username}@users.noreply.github.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/contribution-guidelines.adoc, after:

[[contribution-guidelines]]
= Contribution Guidelines

== Code Formatting and Javadoc

Before submitting a PR, please run the following commands to ensure proper formatting and Javadoc processing

```
./mvnw spring-javaformat:apply javadoc:javadoc -Pjavadoc
```

The `-Pjavadoc` is a profile that enables Javadoc processing so as to avoid a long build time when developing.

== Contributing a New AI Model Implementation

This section outlines the steps for contributing a new AI model implementation.
AI models vary significantly, with diverse inputs and outputs -- from chat models that
translate text input into text output, to text-to-image models that generate images
from text descriptions.
Complex models may even handle multiple types of input and output, such as combining text,
images, and videos to produce mixed media output.

To contribute a new model, adhere to the following steps:

. *Create a Low-Level Client API Class*: If no existing Java client suits the AI model,
you'll need to develop a low-level client API class. This often involves utilizing the
`RestClient` class from the Spring Framework, similar to the `OpenAiApi` class.

. *Create a Model implementation*
Ensure your client conforms to the link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/generic-model.html[Generic Model API].
Use existing request and response classes if your model's inputs and outputs are supported.
If not, create new classes for the Generic Model API and establish a new Java package.
When logging Personally Identifiable Information (PII), mark it with https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/tree/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/util/LoggingMarkers.java[`PII_MARKER`] Slf4j marker.

. *Implement Auto-Configuration and a Spring Boot Starter*: This step involves creating the
necessary auto-configuration and Spring Boot Starter to easily instantiate the new model with
Spring Boot applications.

. *Write Tests*: All new classes should be accompanied by comprehensive tests.
Existing tests can serve as a useful reference for structuring and implementing your tests.

. *Document Your Contribution*: Ensure your documentation follows the existing format,
For an example of the suggested structure and formatting, refer to the
link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/chat/openai-chat.html[Open AI Chat documentation].

By following these guidelines, we can greatly expand the framework's range of supported models
while following a common implementation and documentation pattern.
