spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/azure-openai-chat.adoc, before:

= Azure OpenAI Chat

Azure's OpenAI offering, powered by ChatGPT, extends beyond traditional OpenAI capabilities, delivering AI-driven text generation with enhanced functionality. Azure offers additional AI safety and responsible AI features, as highlighted in their recent update https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/ai-azure-ai-services-blog/announcing-new-ai-safety-amp-responsible-ai-features-in-azure/ba-p/3983686[here].

Azure offers Java developers the opportunity to leverage AI's full potential by integrating it with an array of Azure services, which includes AI-related resources such as Vector Stores on Azure.

== Prerequisites

The Azure OpenAI client offers three options to connect: using an Azure API key or using an OpenAI API Key, or using Microsoft Entra ID.

=== Azure API Key & Endpoint

Obtain your Azure OpenAI `endpoint` and `api-key` from the Azure OpenAI Service section on the https://portal.azure.com[Azure Portal].

Spring AI defines two configuration properties:


1. `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key`: Set this to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Azure.
2. `spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint`: Set this to the endpoint URL obtained when provisioning your model in Azure.

You can set these configuration properties by exporting environment variables:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT AZURE KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<INSERT ENDPOINT URL HERE>
----


=== OpenAI Key

To authenticate with the OpenAI service (not Azure), provide an OpenAI API key. This will automatically set the endpoint to https://api.openai.com/v1.

When using this approach, set the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` property to the name of the https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAI model] you wish to use.

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT OPENAI KEY HERE>
----

=== Microsoft Entra ID

To authenticate using Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory), create a `TokenCredential` bean in your configuration.
If this bean is available, an `OpenAIClient` instance will be created using the token credentials.
bd
=== Deployment Name

To use Azure AI applications, you need to create an Azure AI Deployment through the link:https://oai.azure.com/portal[Azure AI Portal].
In Azure, each client must specify a `Deployment Name` to connect to the Azure OpenAI service.
It's important to note that the `Deployment Name` is different from the model you choose to deploy.
For example, a deployment named 'MyAiDeployment' could be configured to use either the GPT 3.5 Turbo model or the GPT 4.0 model.

To get started, follow these steps to create a deployment with the default settings:

   Deployment Name: `gpt-4o`
   Model Name: `gpt-4o`

This Azure configuration aligns with the default configurations of the Spring Boot Azure AI Starter and its Autoconfiguration feature.
If you use a different Deployment Name, make sure to update the configuration property accordingly:

```
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name=<my deployment name>
```

The different deployment structures of Azure OpenAI and OpenAI leads to a property in the Azure OpenAI client library named `deploymentOrModelName`.
This is because in OpenAI there is no `Deployment Name`, only a `Model Name`.

NOTE: The property `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.model` has been renamed to `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name`.

NOTE: If you decide to connect to `OpenAI` instead of `Azure OpeanAI`, by setting the `spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key=<Your OpenAI Key>` property, 
then the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` is treathed as an link:https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAI model] name.

==== Access the OpenAI Model

You can configure the client to use directly `OpenAI` instead of the `Azure OpenAI` deployed models. 
For this you need to set the `spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key=<Your OpenAI Key>` instead of `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key=<Yur Azure OpenAi Key>`.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure OpenAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.azure.openai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key |  The Key from Azure AI OpenAI `Keys and Endpoint` section under `Resource Management`  | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint | The endpoint from the Azure AI OpenAI `Keys and Endpoint` section under `Resource Management` | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key |  (non Azure) OpenAI API key. Used to authenticate with the OpenAI service, instead of Azure OpenAI. 
This automatically sets the endpoint to https://api.openai.com/v1. Use either `api-key` or `openai-api-key` property. 
With this configuraiton the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` is threated as an https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAi Model] name.| -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat` is the property prefix that configures the `ChatModel` implementation for Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.enabled | Enable Azure OpenAI chat model.  | true
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name | In use with Azure, this refers to the "Deployment Name" of your model, which you can find at https://oai.azure.com/portal. 
It's important to note that within an Azure OpenAI deployment, the "Deployment Name" is distinct from the model itself. 
The confusion around these terms stems from the intention to make the Azure OpenAI client library compatible with the original OpenAI endpoint. 
The deployment structures offered by Azure OpenAI and Sam Altman's OpenAI differ significantly.
Deployments model name to provide as part of this completions request. | gpt-4o
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.maxTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.7
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.topP | An alternative to sampling with temperature called nucleus sampling. This value causes the model to consider the results of tokens with the provided probability mass. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.logitBias | A map between GPT token IDs and bias scores that influences the probability of specific tokens appearing in a completions response. Token IDs are computed via external tokenizer tools, while bias scores reside in the range of -100 to 100 with minimum and maximum values corresponding to a full ban or exclusive selection of a token, respectively. The exact behavior of a given bias score varies by model. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.user | An identifier for the caller or end user of the operation. This may be used for tracking or rate-limiting purposes. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.n | The number of chat completions choices that should be generated for a chat completions response. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.stop | A collection of textual sequences that will end completions generation. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.presencePenalty |  A value that influences the probability of generated tokens appearing based on their existing presence in generated text. Positive values will make tokens less likely to appear when they already exist and increase the model's likelihood to output new topics. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.responseFormat | An object specifying the format that the model must output. Using `AzureOpenAiResponseFormat.JSON` enables JSON mode, which guarantees the message the model generates is valid JSON.  Using AzureOpenAiResponseFormat.TEXT enables TEXT mode.| -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.frequencyPenalty | A value that influences the probability of generated tokens appearing based on their cumulative frequency in generated text. Positive values will make tokens less likely to appear as their frequency increases and decrease the likelihood of the model repeating the same statements verbatim. | -
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java[AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `AzureOpenAiChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
            .withModel("gpt-4-o")
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java[AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].


== Function Calling

You can register custom Java functions with the AzureOpenAiChatModel and have the model intelligently choose to output a JSON object containing arguments to call one or many of the registered functions.
This is a powerful technique to connect the LLM capabilities with external tools and APIs.
Read more about xref:api/chat/functions/azure-open-ai-chat-functions.adoc[Azure OpenAI Function Calling].

== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats.
Presently, the Azure OpenAI `gpt-4o` model offers multimodal support.

The Azure OpenAI can incorporate a list of base64-encoded images or image urls with the message.
Spring AI’s link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] interface facilitates multimodal AI models by introducing the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Media.java[Media] type.
This type encompasses data and details regarding media attachments in messages, utilizing Spring’s `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a code example excerpted from link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/c9a3e66f90187ce7eae7eb78c462ec622685de6c/models/spring-ai-openai/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/chat/OpenAiChatModelIT.java#L293[OpenAiChatModelIT.java], illustrating the fusion of user text with an image using the the `GPT_4_O` model.

[source,java]
----
URL url = new URL("https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/_images/multimodal.test.png");
String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
        .options(AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder().withDeploymentName("gpt4o").build())
        .user(u -> u.text("Explain what do you see on this picture?").media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, url))
        .call()
        .content();
----

TIP: you can pass multiple images as well.

It takes as an input the `multimodal.test.png` image:

image::multimodal.test.png[Multimodal Test Image, 200, 200, align="left"]

along with the text message "Explain what do you see on this picture?", and generates a response like this:

----
This is an image of a fruit bowl with a simple design. The bowl is made of metal with curved wire edges that
create an open structure, allowing the fruit to be visible from all angles. Inside the bowl, there are two
yellow bananas resting on top of what appears to be a red apple. The bananas are slightly overripe, as
indicated by the brown spots on their peels. The bowl has a metal ring at the top, likely to serve as a handle
for carrying. The bowl is placed on a flat surface with a neutral-colored background that provides a clear
view of the fruit inside.
----

You can also pass in a classpath resource instead of a URL as shown in the example below

[source,java]
----
Resource resource = new ClassPathResource("multimodality/multimodal.test.png");

String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
    .options(AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
    .withDeploymentName("gpt-4o").build())
    .user(u -> u.text("Explain what do you see on this picture?")
    .media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, resource))
    .call()
    .content();
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OpenAi chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint=YOUR_ENDPOINT
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name=gpt-4o
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` and `endpoint` with your Azure OpenAI credentials.

This will create a `AzureOpenAiChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.


[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final AzureOpenAiChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(AzureOpenAiChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatModel.java[AzureOpenAiChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and `StreamingChatModel` and uses the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/java/api/overview/azure/ai-openai-readme?view=azure-java-preview[Azure OpenAI Java Client].

To enable it, add the `spring-ai-azure-openai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-azure-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: The `spring-ai-azure-openai` dependency also provide the access to the `AzureOpenAiChatModel`. For more information about the `AzureOpenAiChatModel` refer to the link:../chat/azure-openai-chat.html[Azure OpenAI Chat] section.

Next, create an `AzureOpenAiChatModel` instance and use it to generate text responses:

[source,java]
----
var openAIClient = new OpenAIClientBuilder()
  .credential(new AzureKeyCredential(System.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY")))
  .endpoint(System.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"))
  .buildClient();

var openAIChatOptions = AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
  .withDeploymentName("gpt-4o")
  .withTemperature(0.4)
  .withMaxTokens(200)
  .build();

var chatModel = new AzureOpenAiChatModel(openAIClient, openAIChatOptions);

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
  new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatModel.stream(
  new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

----

NOTE: the `gpt-4o` is actually the `Deployment Name` as presented in the Azure AI Portal.

Commit message:

Add proxy tool calls option to chat models
 This commit introduces a new proxyToolCalls option for various chat
 models in the Spring AI project. When enabled, it allows the client to
 handle function calls externally instead of being processed internally
 by Spring AI.

 The change affects multiple chat model implementations, including:
  AnthropicChatModel
  AzureOpenAiChatModel
  MiniMaxChatModel
  MistralAiChatModel
  MoonshotChatModel
  OllamaChatModel
  OpenAiChatModel
  VertexAiGeminiChatModel
  ZhiPuAiChatModel

 The proxyToolCalls option is added to the respective chat options
 classes and integrated into the AbstractToolCallSupport class for
 consistent handling across different implementations.

 The proxyToolCalls option can be set either programmatically via
 the <ModelName>ChatOptions.builder().withProxyToolCalls() method
 or the spring.ai.<model-name>.chat.options.proxy-tool-calls
 application property.

 Documentation for the new option is also updated in the relevant
 Antora pages.

 Added ITs for proxy tool calls

 Remove ChatClientPromptRequestSpec and all ChatClient.prompt() overloads can how take advantage of the full fluent API.  Docs updated

 Resolves #1367

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/azure-openai-chat.adoc, after:

= Azure OpenAI Chat

Azure's OpenAI offering, powered by ChatGPT, extends beyond traditional OpenAI capabilities, delivering AI-driven text generation with enhanced functionality. Azure offers additional AI safety and responsible AI features, as highlighted in their recent update https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/ai-azure-ai-services-blog/announcing-new-ai-safety-amp-responsible-ai-features-in-azure/ba-p/3983686[here].

Azure offers Java developers the opportunity to leverage AI's full potential by integrating it with an array of Azure services, which includes AI-related resources such as Vector Stores on Azure.

== Prerequisites

The Azure OpenAI client offers three options to connect: using an Azure API key or using an OpenAI API Key, or using Microsoft Entra ID.

=== Azure API Key & Endpoint

Obtain your Azure OpenAI `endpoint` and `api-key` from the Azure OpenAI Service section on the https://portal.azure.com[Azure Portal].

Spring AI defines two configuration properties:


1. `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key`: Set this to the value of the `API Key` obtained from Azure.
2. `spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint`: Set this to the endpoint URL obtained when provisioning your model in Azure.

You can set these configuration properties by exporting environment variables:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT AZURE KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=<INSERT ENDPOINT URL HERE>
----


=== OpenAI Key

To authenticate with the OpenAI service (not Azure), provide an OpenAI API key. This will automatically set the endpoint to https://api.openai.com/v1.

When using this approach, set the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` property to the name of the https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAI model] you wish to use.

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_AZURE_OPENAI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT OPENAI KEY HERE>
----

=== Microsoft Entra ID

To authenticate using Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory), create a `TokenCredential` bean in your configuration.
If this bean is available, an `OpenAIClient` instance will be created using the token credentials.
bd
=== Deployment Name

To use Azure AI applications, you need to create an Azure AI Deployment through the link:https://oai.azure.com/portal[Azure AI Portal].
In Azure, each client must specify a `Deployment Name` to connect to the Azure OpenAI service.
It's important to note that the `Deployment Name` is different from the model you choose to deploy.
For example, a deployment named 'MyAiDeployment' could be configured to use either the GPT 3.5 Turbo model or the GPT 4.0 model.

To get started, follow these steps to create a deployment with the default settings:

   Deployment Name: `gpt-4o`
   Model Name: `gpt-4o`

This Azure configuration aligns with the default configurations of the Spring Boot Azure AI Starter and its Autoconfiguration feature.
If you use a different Deployment Name, make sure to update the configuration property accordingly:

```
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name=<my deployment name>
```

The different deployment structures of Azure OpenAI and OpenAI leads to a property in the Azure OpenAI client library named `deploymentOrModelName`.
This is because in OpenAI there is no `Deployment Name`, only a `Model Name`.

NOTE: The property `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.model` has been renamed to `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name`.

NOTE: If you decide to connect to `OpenAI` instead of `Azure OpeanAI`, by setting the `spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key=<Your OpenAI Key>` property, 
then the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` is treathed as an link:https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAI model] name.

==== Access the OpenAI Model

You can configure the client to use directly `OpenAI` instead of the `Azure OpenAI` deployed models. 
For this you need to set the `spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key=<Your OpenAI Key>` instead of `spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key=<Yur Azure OpenAi Key>`.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure OpenAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.azure.openai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key |  The Key from Azure AI OpenAI `Keys and Endpoint` section under `Resource Management`  | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint | The endpoint from the Azure AI OpenAI `Keys and Endpoint` section under `Resource Management` | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.openai-api-key |  (non Azure) OpenAI API key. Used to authenticate with the OpenAI service, instead of Azure OpenAI. 
This automatically sets the endpoint to https://api.openai.com/v1. Use either `api-key` or `openai-api-key` property. 
With this configuraiton the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name` is threated as an https://platform.openai.com/docs/models[OpenAi Model] name.| -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat` is the property prefix that configures the `ChatModel` implementation for Azure OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.enabled | Enable Azure OpenAI chat model.  | true
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name | In use with Azure, this refers to the "Deployment Name" of your model, which you can find at https://oai.azure.com/portal. 
It's important to note that within an Azure OpenAI deployment, the "Deployment Name" is distinct from the model itself. 
The confusion around these terms stems from the intention to make the Azure OpenAI client library compatible with the original OpenAI endpoint. 
The deployment structures offered by Azure OpenAI and Sam Altman's OpenAI differ significantly.
Deployments model name to provide as part of this completions request. | gpt-4o
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.maxTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.7
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.topP | An alternative to sampling with temperature called nucleus sampling. This value causes the model to consider the results of tokens with the provided probability mass. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.logitBias | A map between GPT token IDs and bias scores that influences the probability of specific tokens appearing in a completions response. Token IDs are computed via external tokenizer tools, while bias scores reside in the range of -100 to 100 with minimum and maximum values corresponding to a full ban or exclusive selection of a token, respectively. The exact behavior of a given bias score varies by model. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.user | An identifier for the caller or end user of the operation. This may be used for tracking or rate-limiting purposes. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.n | The number of chat completions choices that should be generated for a chat completions response. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.stop | A collection of textual sequences that will end completions generation. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.presencePenalty |  A value that influences the probability of generated tokens appearing based on their existing presence in generated text. Positive values will make tokens less likely to appear when they already exist and increase the model's likelihood to output new topics. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.responseFormat | An object specifying the format that the model must output. Using `AzureOpenAiResponseFormat.JSON` enables JSON mode, which guarantees the message the model generates is valid JSON.  Using AzureOpenAiResponseFormat.TEXT enables TEXT mode.| -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.frequencyPenalty | A value that influences the probability of generated tokens appearing based on their cumulative frequency in generated text. Positive values will make tokens less likely to appear as their frequency increases and decrease the likelihood of the model repeating the same statements verbatim. | -
| spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.proxy-tool-calls | If true, the Spring AI will not handle the function calls internally, but will proxy them to the client. Then is the client's responsibility to handle the function calls, dispatch them to the appropriate function, and return the results. If false (the default), the Spring AI will handle the function calls internally. Applicable only for chat models with function calling support | false
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java[AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `AzureOpenAiChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
            .withModel("gpt-4-o")
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java[AzureOpenAiChatOptions.java] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].


== Function Calling

You can register custom Java functions with the AzureOpenAiChatModel and have the model intelligently choose to output a JSON object containing arguments to call one or many of the registered functions.
This is a powerful technique to connect the LLM capabilities with external tools and APIs.
Read more about xref:api/chat/functions/azure-open-ai-chat-functions.adoc[Azure OpenAI Function Calling].

== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats.
Presently, the Azure OpenAI `gpt-4o` model offers multimodal support.

The Azure OpenAI can incorporate a list of base64-encoded images or image urls with the message.
Spring AI’s link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] interface facilitates multimodal AI models by introducing the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Media.java[Media] type.
This type encompasses data and details regarding media attachments in messages, utilizing Spring’s `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a code example excerpted from link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/c9a3e66f90187ce7eae7eb78c462ec622685de6c/models/spring-ai-openai/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/chat/OpenAiChatModelIT.java#L293[OpenAiChatModelIT.java], illustrating the fusion of user text with an image using the the `GPT_4_O` model.

[source,java]
----
URL url = new URL("https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/_images/multimodal.test.png");
String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
        .options(AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder().withDeploymentName("gpt4o").build())
        .user(u -> u.text("Explain what do you see on this picture?").media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, url))
        .call()
        .content();
----

TIP: you can pass multiple images as well.

It takes as an input the `multimodal.test.png` image:

image::multimodal.test.png[Multimodal Test Image, 200, 200, align="left"]

along with the text message "Explain what do you see on this picture?", and generates a response like this:

----
This is an image of a fruit bowl with a simple design. The bowl is made of metal with curved wire edges that
create an open structure, allowing the fruit to be visible from all angles. Inside the bowl, there are two
yellow bananas resting on top of what appears to be a red apple. The bananas are slightly overripe, as
indicated by the brown spots on their peels. The bowl has a metal ring at the top, likely to serve as a handle
for carrying. The bowl is placed on a flat surface with a neutral-colored background that provides a clear
view of the fruit inside.
----

You can also pass in a classpath resource instead of a URL as shown in the example below

[source,java]
----
Resource resource = new ClassPathResource("multimodality/multimodal.test.png");

String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
    .options(AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
    .withDeploymentName("gpt-4o").build())
    .user(u -> u.text("Explain what do you see on this picture?")
    .media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, resource))
    .call()
    .content();
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-azure-openai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OpenAi chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.azure.openai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.azure.openai.endpoint=YOUR_ENDPOINT
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.deployment-name=gpt-4o
spring.ai.azure.openai.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` and `endpoint` with your Azure OpenAI credentials.

This will create a `AzureOpenAiChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.


[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final AzureOpenAiChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(AzureOpenAiChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-azure-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/azure/openai/AzureOpenAiChatModel.java[AzureOpenAiChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and `StreamingChatModel` and uses the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/java/api/overview/azure/ai-openai-readme?view=azure-java-preview[Azure OpenAI Java Client].

To enable it, add the `spring-ai-azure-openai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-azure-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: The `spring-ai-azure-openai` dependency also provide the access to the `AzureOpenAiChatModel`. For more information about the `AzureOpenAiChatModel` refer to the link:../chat/azure-openai-chat.html[Azure OpenAI Chat] section.

Next, create an `AzureOpenAiChatModel` instance and use it to generate text responses:

[source,java]
----
var openAIClient = new OpenAIClientBuilder()
  .credential(new AzureKeyCredential(System.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY")))
  .endpoint(System.getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"))
  .buildClient();

var openAIChatOptions = AzureOpenAiChatOptions.builder()
  .withDeploymentName("gpt-4o")
  .withTemperature(0.4)
  .withMaxTokens(200)
  .build();

var chatModel = new AzureOpenAiChatModel(openAIClient, openAIChatOptions);

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
  new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatModel.stream(
  new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

----

NOTE: the `gpt-4o` is actually the `Deployment Name` as presented in the Azure AI Portal.
