spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/ollama-chat.adoc, before:

= Ollama Chat

With https://ollama.ai/[Ollama] you can run various Large Language Models (LLMs) locally and generate text from them.
Spring AI supports the Ollama text generation with `OllamaChatClient`.

== Prerequisites

You first need to run Ollama on your local machine.
Refer to the official Ollama project link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama[README] to get started running models on your local machine.

NOTE: installing `ollama run llama2` will download a 4GB docker image.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Ollama Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
   <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-ai-ollama-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-ollama-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.ollama` is the property prefix to configure the connection to Ollama

[cols="3,6,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.ollama.base-url | Base URL where Ollama API server is running. | `http://localhost:11434`
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options` is the property prefix that configures the chat client implementation for Ollama.

NOTE: The `options` properties are based on the link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md#valid-parameters-and-values[Ollama Valid Parameters and Values] and link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama/blob/main/api/types.go[Ollama Types]. The default values are based on: link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/b538dc3858014f94b099730a592751a5454cab0a/api/types.go#L364[Ollama type defaults].

[cols="3,6,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.ollama.chat.enabled      | Enable Ollama chat client. | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.model  | The name of the https://github.com/ollama/ollama?tab=readme-ov-file#model-library[supported models] to use. | mistral
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.numa              | Whether to use NUMA.                                           | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-ctx           | Sets the size of the context window used to generate the next token. | 2048
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-batch         | ???                                                             | 512
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-gqa           | The number of GQA groups in the transformer layer. Required for some models, for example, it is 8 for llama2:70b. | 1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-gpu           | The number of layers to send to the GPU(s). On macOS it defaults to 1 to enable metal support, 0 to disable. 1 here indicates that NumGPU should be set dynamically | -1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.main-gpu          | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.low-vram          | ???                                                             | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.f16-kv            | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.logits-all        | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.vocab-only        | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.use-mmap          | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.use-mlock         | ???                                                             | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.rope-frequency-base | ???                                                           | 10000.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.rope-frequency-scale | ???                                                          | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-thread        | Sets the number of threads to use during computation. By default, Ollama will detect this for optimal performance. It is recommended to set this value to the number of physical CPU cores your system has (as opposed to the logical number of cores). 0 = let the runtime decide | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-keep          | ???                                                             | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.seed              | Sets the random number seed to use for generation. Setting this to a specific number will make the model generate the same text for the same prompt.  | -1

| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-predict       | Maximum number of tokens to predict when generating text. (-1 = infinite generation, -2 = fill context) | -1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.top-k             | Reduces the probability of generating nonsense. A higher value (e.g., 100) will give more diverse answers, while a lower value (e.g., 10) will be more conservative.  | 40
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.top-p             | Works together with top-k. A higher value (e.g., 0.95) will lead to more diverse text, while a lower value (e.g., 0.5) will generate more focused and conservative text.  | 0.9
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.tfs-z             | Tail-free sampling is used to reduce the impact of less probable tokens from the output. A higher value (e.g., 2.0) will reduce the impact more, while a value of 1.0 disables this setting. | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.typical-p         | ???                                                             | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.repeat-last-n      | Sets how far back for the model to look back to prevent repetition. (Default: 64, 0 = disabled, -1 = num_ctx) | 64
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.temperature       | The temperature of the model. Increasing the temperature will make the model answer more creatively. | 0.8
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.repeat-penalty    | Sets how strongly to penalize repetitions. A higher value (e.g., 1.5) will penalize repetitions more strongly, while a lower value (e.g., 0.9) will be more lenient. | 1.1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.presence-penalty  | ???                                                             | 0.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.frequency-penalty | ???                                                             | 0.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat          | Enable Mirostat sampling for controlling perplexity. (default: 0, 0 = disabled, 1 = Mirostat, 2 = Mirostat 2.0) | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat-tau      | Influences how quickly the algorithm responds to feedback from the generated text. A lower learning rate will result in slower adjustments, while a higher learning rate will make the algorithm more responsive. | 5.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat-eta      | Controls the balance between coherence and diversity of the output. A lower value will result in more focused and coherent text. | 0.1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.penalize-newline  | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.stop              | Sets the stop sequences to use. When this pattern is encountered the LLM will stop generating text and return. Multiple stop patterns may be set by specifying multiple separate stop parameters in a modelfile. | -
|====

NOTE: The list of options for chat is to be reviewed. This https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/230[issue] will track progress.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaOptions.java[OllamaOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature,  etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OllamaChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        OllamaOptions.create()
            .withModel("llama2")
            .withTemperature(0.4)
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaOptions.java[OllamaOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].


== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats.

Presently, the https://ollama.com/library/llava[LLaVa] and https://ollama.com/library/bakllava[bakllava] Ollama models offer multimodal support.
For further details, refer to the link:https://llava-vl.github.io/[LLaVA: Large Language and Vision Assistant].

The Ollama link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#parameters-1[Message API] provides an "images" parameter to incorporate a list of base64-encoded images with the message.

Spring AI’s link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] interface facilitates multimodal AI models by introducing the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Media.java[Media] type.
This type encompasses data and details regarding media attachments in messages, utilizing Spring’s `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a straightforward code example excerpted from link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/OllamaChatClientMultimodalIT.java[OllamaChatClientMultimodalIT.java], illustrating the fusion of user text with an image.

[source,java]
----
byte[] imageData = new ClassPathResource("/multimodal.test.png").getContentAsByteArray();

var userMessage = new UserMessage("Explain what do you see on this picture?",
        List.of(new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, imageData)));

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(List.of(userMessage), OllamaOptions.create().withModel("llava")));

logger.info(response.getResult().getOutput().getContent());
----

It takes as an input the `multimodal.test.png` image:

image::multimodal.test.png[Multimodal Test Image, 200, 200, align="left"]

along with the text message "Explain what do you see on this picture?", and generates a response like this:

----
The image shows a small metal basket filled with ripe bananas and red apples. The basket is placed on a surface,
which appears to be a table or countertop, as there's a hint of what seems like a kitchen cabinet or drawer in
the background. There's also a gold-colored ring visible behind the basket, which could indicate that this
photo was taken in an area with metallic decorations or fixtures. The overall setting suggests a home environment
where fruits are being displayed, possibly for convenience or aesthetic purposes.
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OpenAi Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.ollama.base-url=http://localhost:11434
spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.model=mistral
spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `base-url` with your Ollama server URL.

This will create a `OllamaChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final OllamaChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(OllamaChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }

}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you don't want to use the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OllamaChatClient` in your application.
The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/OllamaChatClient.java[OllamaChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Ollama service.

To use it add the `spring-ai-ollama` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-ollama</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-ollama'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: The `spring-ai-ollama` dependency provides access also to the `OllamaEmbeddingClient`.
For more information about the `OllamaEmbeddingClient` refer to the link:../embeddings/ollama-embeddings.html[Ollama Embedding Client] section.

Next, create an `OllamaChatClient` instance and use it to text generations requests:

[source,java]
----
var ollamaApi = new OllamaApi();

var chatClient = new OllamaChatClient(ollamaApi).withModel(MODEL)
        .withDefaultOptions(OllamaOptions.create()
                .withModel(OllamaOptions.DEFAULT_MODEL)
                .withTemperature(0.9f));

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `OllamaOptions` provides the configuration information for all chat requests.

== Low-level OpenAiApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaApi.java[OllamaApi] provides is lightweight Java client for Ollama Chat API link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#generate-a-chat-completion[Ollama Chat Completion API].

Following class diagram illustrates the `OllamaApi` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::ollama-chat-completion-api.png[OllamaApi Chat Completion API Diagram]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
OllamaApi ollamaApi =
    new OllamaApi("YOUR_HOST:YOUR_PORT");

// Sync request
var request = ChatRequest.builder("orca-mini")
    .withStream(false) // not streaming
    .withMessages(List.of(
            Message.builder(Role.SYSTEM)
                .withContent("You are geography teacher. You are talking to a student.")
                .build(),
            Message.builder(Role.USER)
                .withContent("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? "
                        + "What is the national anthem?")
                .build()))
    .withOptions(OllamaOptions.create().withTemperature(0.9f))
    .build();

ChatResponse response = ollamaApi.chat(request);

// Streaming request
var request2 = ChatRequest.builder("orca-mini")
    .withStream(true) // streaming
    .withMessages(List.of(Message.builder(Role.USER)
        .withContent("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? " + "What is the national anthem?")
        .build()))
    .withOptions(OllamaOptions.create().withTemperature(0.9f).toMap())
    .build();

Flux<ChatResponse> streamingResponse = ollamaApi.streamingChat(request2);
----

Commit message:

Support keep-alive and format options in Ollama chat requests
 - add support for the advanced parameter 'template'.
 - add docs for the advanced parameters.

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/ollama-chat.adoc, after:

= Ollama Chat

With https://ollama.ai/[Ollama] you can run various Large Language Models (LLMs) locally and generate text from them.
Spring AI supports the Ollama text generation with `OllamaChatClient`.

== Prerequisites

You first need to run Ollama on your local machine.
Refer to the official Ollama project link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama[README] to get started running models on your local machine.

NOTE: installing `ollama run llama2` will download a 4GB docker image.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Ollama Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
   <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-ai-ollama-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-ollama-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.ollama` is the property prefix to configure the connection to Ollama

[cols="3,6,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.ollama.base-url | Base URL where Ollama API server is running. | `http://localhost:11434`
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options` is the property prefix that configures the Ollama chat client .
It includes the Ollama request (advanced) parameters such as the `model`, `keep-alive`, `format` and `template` as well as the Ollama model `options` properties.

Here are the advanced request parameter for the Ollama chat client:

[cols="3,6,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.ollama.chat.enabled      | Enable Ollama chat client. | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.model  | The name of the https://github.com/ollama/ollama?tab=readme-ov-file#model-library[supported models] to use. | mistral
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.format  | The format to return a response in. Currently the only accepted value is `json` | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.keep_alive  | controls how long the model will stay loaded into memory following the request | 5m
|====

The `options` properties are based on the link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md#valid-parameters-and-values[Ollama Valid Parameters and Values] and link:https://github.com/jmorganca/ollama/blob/main/api/types.go[Ollama Types]. The default values are based on: link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/b538dc3858014f94b099730a592751a5454cab0a/api/types.go#L364[Ollama type defaults].

[cols="3,6,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.numa              | Whether to use NUMA.                                           | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-ctx           | Sets the size of the context window used to generate the next token. | 2048
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-batch         | ???                                                             | 512
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-gqa           | The number of GQA groups in the transformer layer. Required for some models, for example, it is 8 for llama2:70b. | 1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-gpu           | The number of layers to send to the GPU(s). On macOS it defaults to 1 to enable metal support, 0 to disable. 1 here indicates that NumGPU should be set dynamically | -1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.main-gpu          | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.low-vram          | ???                                                             | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.f16-kv            | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.logits-all        | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.vocab-only        | ???                                                             | -
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.use-mmap          | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.use-mlock         | ???                                                             | false
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.rope-frequency-base | ???                                                           | 10000.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.rope-frequency-scale | ???                                                          | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-thread        | Sets the number of threads to use during computation. By default, Ollama will detect this for optimal performance. It is recommended to set this value to the number of physical CPU cores your system has (as opposed to the logical number of cores). 0 = let the runtime decide | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-keep          | ???                                                             | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.seed              | Sets the random number seed to use for generation. Setting this to a specific number will make the model generate the same text for the same prompt.  | -1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.num-predict       | Maximum number of tokens to predict when generating text. (-1 = infinite generation, -2 = fill context) | -1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.top-k             | Reduces the probability of generating nonsense. A higher value (e.g., 100) will give more diverse answers, while a lower value (e.g., 10) will be more conservative.  | 40
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.top-p             | Works together with top-k. A higher value (e.g., 0.95) will lead to more diverse text, while a lower value (e.g., 0.5) will generate more focused and conservative text.  | 0.9
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.tfs-z             | Tail-free sampling is used to reduce the impact of less probable tokens from the output. A higher value (e.g., 2.0) will reduce the impact more, while a value of 1.0 disables this setting. | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.typical-p         | ???                                                             | 1.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.repeat-last-n      | Sets how far back for the model to look back to prevent repetition. (Default: 64, 0 = disabled, -1 = num_ctx) | 64
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.temperature       | The temperature of the model. Increasing the temperature will make the model answer more creatively. | 0.8
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.repeat-penalty    | Sets how strongly to penalize repetitions. A higher value (e.g., 1.5) will penalize repetitions more strongly, while a lower value (e.g., 0.9) will be more lenient. | 1.1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.presence-penalty  | ???                                                             | 0.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.frequency-penalty | ???                                                             | 0.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat          | Enable Mirostat sampling for controlling perplexity. (default: 0, 0 = disabled, 1 = Mirostat, 2 = Mirostat 2.0) | 0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat-tau      | Influences how quickly the algorithm responds to feedback from the generated text. A lower learning rate will result in slower adjustments, while a higher learning rate will make the algorithm more responsive. | 5.0
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.mirostat-eta      | Controls the balance between coherence and diversity of the output. A lower value will result in more focused and coherent text. | 0.1
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.penalize-newline  | ???                                                             | true
| spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.stop              | Sets the stop sequences to use. When this pattern is encountered the LLM will stop generating text and return. Multiple stop patterns may be set by specifying multiple separate stop parameters in a modelfile. | -
|====

NOTE: The list of options for chat is to be reviewed. This https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/230[issue] will track progress.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaOptions.java[OllamaOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature,  etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OllamaChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        OllamaOptions.create()
            .withModel("llama2")
            .withTemperature(0.4)
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaOptions.java[OllamaOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].


== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats.

Presently, the https://ollama.com/library/llava[LLaVa] and https://ollama.com/library/bakllava[bakllava] Ollama models offer multimodal support.
For further details, refer to the link:https://llava-vl.github.io/[LLaVA: Large Language and Vision Assistant].

The Ollama link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#parameters-1[Message API] provides an "images" parameter to incorporate a list of base64-encoded images with the message.

Spring AI’s link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] interface facilitates multimodal AI models by introducing the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Media.java[Media] type.
This type encompasses data and details regarding media attachments in messages, utilizing Spring’s `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a straightforward code example excerpted from link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/OllamaChatClientMultimodalIT.java[OllamaChatClientMultimodalIT.java], illustrating the fusion of user text with an image.

[source,java]
----
byte[] imageData = new ClassPathResource("/multimodal.test.png").getContentAsByteArray();

var userMessage = new UserMessage("Explain what do you see on this picture?",
        List.of(new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, imageData)));

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(List.of(userMessage), OllamaOptions.create().withModel("llava")));

logger.info(response.getResult().getOutput().getContent());
----

It takes as an input the `multimodal.test.png` image:

image::multimodal.test.png[Multimodal Test Image, 200, 200, align="left"]

along with the text message "Explain what do you see on this picture?", and generates a response like this:

----
The image shows a small metal basket filled with ripe bananas and red apples. The basket is placed on a surface,
which appears to be a table or countertop, as there's a hint of what seems like a kitchen cabinet or drawer in
the background. There's also a gold-colored ring visible behind the basket, which could indicate that this
photo was taken in an area with metallic decorations or fixtures. The overall setting suggests a home environment
where fruits are being displayed, possibly for convenience or aesthetic purposes.
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OpenAi Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.ollama.base-url=http://localhost:11434
spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.model=mistral
spring.ai.ollama.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `base-url` with your Ollama server URL.

This will create a `OllamaChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final OllamaChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(OllamaChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }

}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you don't want to use the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OllamaChatClient` in your application.
The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/OllamaChatClient.java[OllamaChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Ollama service.

To use it add the `spring-ai-ollama` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-ollama</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-ollama'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: The `spring-ai-ollama` dependency provides access also to the `OllamaEmbeddingClient`.
For more information about the `OllamaEmbeddingClient` refer to the link:../embeddings/ollama-embeddings.html[Ollama Embedding Client] section.

Next, create an `OllamaChatClient` instance and use it to text generations requests:

[source,java]
----
var ollamaApi = new OllamaApi();

var chatClient = new OllamaChatClient(ollamaApi).withModel(MODEL)
        .withDefaultOptions(OllamaOptions.create()
                .withModel(OllamaOptions.DEFAULT_MODEL)
                .withTemperature(0.9f));

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `OllamaOptions` provides the configuration information for all chat requests.

== Low-level OpenAiApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-ollama/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/ollama/api/OllamaApi.java[OllamaApi] provides is lightweight Java client for Ollama Chat API link:https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/api.md#generate-a-chat-completion[Ollama Chat Completion API].

Following class diagram illustrates the `OllamaApi` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::ollama-chat-completion-api.png[OllamaApi Chat Completion API Diagram]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
OllamaApi ollamaApi =
    new OllamaApi("YOUR_HOST:YOUR_PORT");

// Sync request
var request = ChatRequest.builder("orca-mini")
    .withStream(false) // not streaming
    .withMessages(List.of(
            Message.builder(Role.SYSTEM)
                .withContent("You are geography teacher. You are talking to a student.")
                .build(),
            Message.builder(Role.USER)
                .withContent("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? "
                        + "What is the national anthem?")
                .build()))
    .withOptions(OllamaOptions.create().withTemperature(0.9f))
    .build();

ChatResponse response = ollamaApi.chat(request);

// Streaming request
var request2 = ChatRequest.builder("orca-mini")
    .withStream(true) // streaming
    .withMessages(List.of(Message.builder(Role.USER)
        .withContent("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? " + "What is the national anthem?")
        .build()))
    .withOptions(OllamaOptions.create().withTemperature(0.9f).toMap())
    .build();

Flux<ChatResponse> streamingResponse = ollamaApi.streamingChat(request2);
----
