spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/qianfan-chat.adoc, before:

= QianFan Chat

Spring AI supports the various AI language models from QianFan. You can interact with QianFan language models and create a multilingual conversational assistant based on QianFan models.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with QianFan to access QianFan language models.

Create an account at https://login.bce.baidu.com/new-reg[QianFan registration page] and generate the token on the https://console.bce.baidu.com/qianfan/ais/console/applicationConsole/application[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.qianfan.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key`.
you should set to the value of the `API Key` and `Secret Key` obtained from https://console.bce.baidu.com/qianfan/ais/console/applicationConsole/application[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_QIANFAN_API_KEY=<INSERT API KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY=<INSERT SECRET KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.



== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the QianFan Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the QianFan Chat client.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.qianfan` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to QianFan.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.qianfan.base-url         | The URL to connect to |  https://api.qianfan.chat
| spring.ai.qianfan.api-key          | The API Key           |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key       | The Secret Key        |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.qianfan.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat client implementation for QianFan.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.enabled | Enable QianFan chat client.  | true
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.base-url | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.base-url to provide chat specific url |  https://api.qianfan.chat
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.api-key | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.secret-key | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key to provide chat specific secret-key |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.model | This is the QianFan Chat model to use | `abab5.5-chat` (the `abab5.5s-chat`, `abab5.5-chat`, and `abab6-chat` point to the latest model versions)
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.maxTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate in the chat completion. The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the model's context length. | -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.7
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.topP | An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered. We generally recommend altering this or temperature but not both. | 1.0
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.presencePenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics. |  0.0f
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.frequencyPenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim. | 0.0f
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.stop | The model will stop generating characters specified by stop, and currently only supports a single stop word in the format of ["stop_word1"] | -
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.qianfan.base-url`, `spring.ai.qianfan.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key` for the `ChatClient` implementations.
The `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.base-url`, `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.secret-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different QianFan accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatOptions.java[QianFanChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `QianFanChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        QianFanChatOptions.builder()
            .model(QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue())
            .temperature(0.5)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatOptions.java[QianFanChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the QianFan Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.qianfan.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key=YOUR_SECRET_KEY
spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.model=ernie_speed
spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` and `secret-key` with your QianFan credentials.

This will create a `QianFanChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final QianFanChatModel chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(QianFanChatModel chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", this.chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        var prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return this.chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatModel.java[QianFanChatModel] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the QianFan service.

Add the `spring-ai-qianfan` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-qianfan</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qianfan'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `QianFanChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
var qianFanApi = new QianFanApi(System.getenv("QIANFAN_API_KEY"), System.getenv("QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY"));

var chatClient = new QianFanChatModel(this.qianFanApi, QianFanChatOptions.builder()
                .model(QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue())
                .temperature(0.4)
                .maxTokens(200)
                .build());

ChatResponse response = this.chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> streamResponse = this.chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `QianFanChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `QianFanChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level QianFanApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApi.java[QianFanApi] provides is lightweight Java client for link:https://cloud.baidu.com/doc/WENXINWORKSHOP/s/flfmc9do2[QianFan API].

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
String systemMessage = "Your name is QianWen";

QianFanApi qianFanApi =
    new QianFanApi(System.getenv("QIANFAN_API_KEY"), System.getenv("QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY"));

ChatCompletionMessage chatCompletionMessage =
    new ChatCompletionMessage("Hello world", Role.USER);

// Sync request
ResponseEntity<ChatCompletion> response = this.qianFanApi.chatCompletionEntity(
    new ChatCompletionRequest(List.of(this.chatCompletionMessage), this.systemMessage, QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue(), 0.7, false));

// Streaming request
Flux<ChatCompletionChunk> streamResponse = this.qianFanApi.chatCompletionStream(
        new ChatCompletionRequest(List.of(this.chatCompletionMessage), this.systemMessage, QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue(), 0.7, true));
----

Follow the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApi.java[QianFanApi.java]'s JavaDoc for further information.

==== QianFanApi Samples
* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApiIT.java[QianFanApiIT.java] test provides some general examples how to use the lightweight library.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/qianfan-chat.adoc, after:

= QianFan Chat

Spring AI supports the various AI language models from QianFan. You can interact with QianFan language models and create a multilingual conversational assistant based on QianFan models.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with QianFan to access QianFan language models.

Create an account at https://login.bce.baidu.com/new-reg[QianFan registration page] and generate the token on the https://console.bce.baidu.com/qianfan/ais/console/applicationConsole/application[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.qianfan.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key`.
you should set to the value of the `API Key` and `Secret Key` obtained from https://console.bce.baidu.com/qianfan/ais/console/applicationConsole/application[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_QIANFAN_API_KEY=<INSERT API KEY HERE>
export SPRING_AI_QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY=<INSERT SECRET KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.



== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the QianFan Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the QianFan Chat client.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.qianfan` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to QianFan.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.qianfan.base-url         | The URL to connect to |  https://api.qianfan.chat
| spring.ai.qianfan.api-key          | The API Key           |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key       | The Secret Key        |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the chat auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.chat`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.chat=qianfan (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.chat=none (or any value which doesn't match qianfan)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.qianfan.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat client implementation for QianFan.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable QianFan chat client.  | true
| spring.ai.model.chat  | Enable QianFan chat client.  | qianfan
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.base-url | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.base-url to provide chat specific url |  https://api.qianfan.chat
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.api-key | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.secret-key | Optional overrides the spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key to provide chat specific secret-key |  -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.model | This is the QianFan Chat model to use | `abab5.5-chat` (the `abab5.5s-chat`, `abab5.5-chat`, and `abab6-chat` point to the latest model versions)
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.maxTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate in the chat completion. The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the model's context length. | -
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.7
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.topP | An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered. We generally recommend altering this or temperature but not both. | 1.0
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.presencePenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics. |  0.0f
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.frequencyPenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim. | 0.0f
| spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.stop | The model will stop generating characters specified by stop, and currently only supports a single stop word in the format of ["stop_word1"] | -
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.qianfan.base-url`, `spring.ai.qianfan.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key` for the `ChatClient` implementations.
The `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.base-url`, `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.api-key` and `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.secret-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different QianFan accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatOptions.java[QianFanChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `QianFanChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        QianFanChatOptions.builder()
            .model(QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue())
            .temperature(0.5)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatOptions.java[QianFanChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-starter-model-qianfan` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the QianFan Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.qianfan.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.qianfan.secret-key=YOUR_SECRET_KEY
spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.model=ernie_speed
spring.ai.qianfan.chat.options.temperature=0.7
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` and `secret-key` with your QianFan credentials.

This will create a `QianFanChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final QianFanChatModel chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(QianFanChatModel chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", this.chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        var prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return this.chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/QianFanChatModel.java[QianFanChatModel] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the QianFan service.

Add the `spring-ai-qianfan` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-qianfan</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qianfan'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `QianFanChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
var qianFanApi = new QianFanApi(System.getenv("QIANFAN_API_KEY"), System.getenv("QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY"));

var chatClient = new QianFanChatModel(this.qianFanApi, QianFanChatOptions.builder()
                .model(QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue())
                .temperature(0.4)
                .maxTokens(200)
                .build());

ChatResponse response = this.chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> streamResponse = this.chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `QianFanChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `QianFanChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level QianFanApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApi.java[QianFanApi] provides is lightweight Java client for link:https://cloud.baidu.com/doc/WENXINWORKSHOP/s/flfmc9do2[QianFan API].

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
String systemMessage = "Your name is QianWen";

QianFanApi qianFanApi =
    new QianFanApi(System.getenv("QIANFAN_API_KEY"), System.getenv("QIANFAN_SECRET_KEY"));

ChatCompletionMessage chatCompletionMessage =
    new ChatCompletionMessage("Hello world", Role.USER);

// Sync request
ResponseEntity<ChatCompletion> response = this.qianFanApi.chatCompletionEntity(
    new ChatCompletionRequest(List.of(this.chatCompletionMessage), this.systemMessage, QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue(), 0.7, false));

// Streaming request
Flux<ChatCompletionChunk> streamResponse = this.qianFanApi.chatCompletionStream(
        new ChatCompletionRequest(List.of(this.chatCompletionMessage), this.systemMessage, QianFanApi.ChatModel.ERNIE_Speed_8K.getValue(), 0.7, true));
----

Follow the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApi.java[QianFanApi.java]'s JavaDoc for further information.

==== QianFanApi Samples
* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-qianfan/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/qianfan/api/QianFanApiIT.java[QianFanApiIT.java] test provides some general examples how to use the lightweight library.
