spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/vertexai-gemini-chat.adoc, before:

= VertexAI Gemini Chat

The https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/multimodal/overview[Vertex AI Gemini API] allows developers to build generative AI applications using the Gemini model.
The Vertex AI Gemini API supports multimodal prompts as input and output text or code.
A multimodal model is a model that is capable of processing information from multiple modalities, including images, videos, and text. For example, you can send the model a photo of a plate of cookies and ask it to give you a recipe for those cookies.

Gemini is a family of generative AI models developed by Google DeepMind that is designed for multimodal use cases. The Gemini API gives you access to the Gemini 1.0 Pro Vision and Gemini 1.0 Pro models. For specifications of the Vertex AI Gemini API models, see link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/learn/models#gemini-models[Model information].

link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/gemini[Gemini API Reference]

== Prerequisites

- Install the link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[gcloud] CLI, apropriate for you OS.
- Authenticate by running the following command. 
Replace `PROJECT_ID` with your Google Cloud project ID and `ACCOUNT` with your Google Cloud username.

[source]
----
gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID> &&
gcloud auth application-default login <ACCOUNT>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Gemini Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.projectId   | Google Cloud Platform project ID |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.location    | Region           |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.credentialsUri    | URI to Vertex AI Gemini credentials. When provided it is used to create an a `GoogleCredentials` instance to authenticate the `VertexAI`. |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.apiEndpoint | Vertex AI Gemini API endpoint. |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.scopes |  |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.transport | API transport. GRPC or REST. |  GRPC
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat model implementation for VertexAI Gemini Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.model | Supported https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/gemini[Vertex AI Gemini Chat model] to use include the (1.0 ) `gemini-pro`, `gemini-pro-vision` (deprecated) and the new `gemini-1.5-pro-001`, `gemini-1.5-flash-001` models. | gemini-1.5-pro-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.responseMimeType | Output response mimetype of the generated candidate text. |  `text/plain`: (default) Text output or `application/json`: JSON response.
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.googleSearchRetrieval | Use Google search Grounding feature | `true` or `false`, default `false`.
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.8
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.maxOutputTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.frequencyPenalty |  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.presencePenalty |  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.functions | List of functions, identified by their names, to enable for function calling in a single prompt requests. Functions with those names must exist in the functionCallbacks registry. | -

|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.java[VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiGeminiChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Function Calling

WARNING: As of 30th of April 2023, the Vertex AI `Gemini Pro` model has significantly degraded the support for function calling! While the feature is still available, it is not recommended for production use.
Apparently the Gemini Pro can not handle anymore the function name correctly.
The parallel function calling is gone as well.

You can register custom Java functions with the VertexAiGeminiChatModel and have the Gemini Pro model intelligently choose to output a JSON object containing arguments to call one or many of the registered functions.
This is a powerful technique to connect the LLM capabilities with external tools and APIs.
Read more about xref:api/chat/functions/vertexai-gemini-chat-functions.adoc[Vertex AI Gemini Function Calling].

== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats. This paradigm represents a significant advancement in AI models.

Google's Gemini AI models support this capability by comprehending and integrating text, code, audio, images, and video. For more details, refer to the blog post https://blog.google/technology/ai/google-gemini-ai/#introducing-gemini[Introducing Gemini].

Spring AI's `Message` interface supports multimodal AI models by introducing the Media type.
This type contains data and information about media attachments in messages, using Spring's `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a simple code example extracted from https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatModelIT.java[VertexAiGeminiChatModelIT.java], demonstrating the combination of user text with an image.


[source,java]
----
byte[] data = new ClassPathResource("/vertex-test.png").getContentAsByteArray();

var userMessage = new UserMessage("Explain what do you see o this picture?",
        List.of(new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, data)));

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(new Prompt(List.of(userMessage)));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.project-id=PROJECT_ID
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.location=LOCATION
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.model=vertex-pro-vision
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiGeminiChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiGeminiChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiGeminiChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatModel.java[VertexAiGeminiChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and uses the `VertexAI` to connect to the Vertex AI Gemini service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiGeminiChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAI vertexApi =  new VertexAI(projectId, location);

var chatModel = new VertexAiGeminiChatModel(vertexApi,
    VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.builder()
        .withModel(ChatModel.GEMINI_PRO_1_5_PRO)
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

== Low-level Java Client [[low-level-api]]

Following class diagram illustrates the Vertex AI Gemini native Java API:

image::vertex-ai-gemini-native-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]

Commit message:

Add proxy tool calls option to chat models
 This commit introduces a new proxyToolCalls option for various chat
 models in the Spring AI project. When enabled, it allows the client to
 handle function calls externally instead of being processed internally
 by Spring AI.

 The change affects multiple chat model implementations, including:
  AnthropicChatModel
  AzureOpenAiChatModel
  MiniMaxChatModel
  MistralAiChatModel
  MoonshotChatModel
  OllamaChatModel
  OpenAiChatModel
  VertexAiGeminiChatModel
  ZhiPuAiChatModel

 The proxyToolCalls option is added to the respective chat options
 classes and integrated into the AbstractToolCallSupport class for
 consistent handling across different implementations.

 The proxyToolCalls option can be set either programmatically via
 the <ModelName>ChatOptions.builder().withProxyToolCalls() method
 or the spring.ai.<model-name>.chat.options.proxy-tool-calls
 application property.

 Documentation for the new option is also updated in the relevant
 Antora pages.

 Added ITs for proxy tool calls

 Remove ChatClientPromptRequestSpec and all ChatClient.prompt() overloads can how take advantage of the full fluent API.  Docs updated

 Resolves #1367

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/vertexai-gemini-chat.adoc, after:

= VertexAI Gemini Chat

The https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/multimodal/overview[Vertex AI Gemini API] allows developers to build generative AI applications using the Gemini model.
The Vertex AI Gemini API supports multimodal prompts as input and output text or code.
A multimodal model is a model that is capable of processing information from multiple modalities, including images, videos, and text. For example, you can send the model a photo of a plate of cookies and ask it to give you a recipe for those cookies.

Gemini is a family of generative AI models developed by Google DeepMind that is designed for multimodal use cases. The Gemini API gives you access to the Gemini 1.0 Pro Vision and Gemini 1.0 Pro models. For specifications of the Vertex AI Gemini API models, see link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/learn/models#gemini-models[Model information].

link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/gemini[Gemini API Reference]

== Prerequisites

- Install the link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[gcloud] CLI, apropriate for you OS.
- Authenticate by running the following command. 
Replace `PROJECT_ID` with your Google Cloud project ID and `ACCOUNT` with your Google Cloud username.

[source]
----
gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID> &&
gcloud auth application-default login <ACCOUNT>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Gemini Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.projectId   | Google Cloud Platform project ID |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.location    | Region           |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.credentialsUri    | URI to Vertex AI Gemini credentials. When provided it is used to create an a `GoogleCredentials` instance to authenticate the `VertexAI`. |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.apiEndpoint | Vertex AI Gemini API endpoint. |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.scopes |  |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.transport | API transport. GRPC or REST. |  GRPC
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat model implementation for VertexAI Gemini Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.model | Supported https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/gemini[Vertex AI Gemini Chat model] to use include the (1.0 ) `gemini-pro`, `gemini-pro-vision` (deprecated) and the new `gemini-1.5-pro-001`, `gemini-1.5-flash-001` models. | gemini-1.5-pro-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.responseMimeType | Output response mimetype of the generated candidate text. |  `text/plain`: (default) Text output or `application/json`: JSON response.
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.googleSearchRetrieval | Use Google search Grounding feature | `true` or `false`, default `false`.
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.8
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.maxOutputTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.frequencyPenalty |  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.presencePenalty |  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.functions | List of functions, identified by their names, to enable for function calling in a single prompt requests. Functions with those names must exist in the functionCallbacks registry. | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.proxy-tool-calls | If true, the Spring AI will not handle the function calls internally, but will proxy them to the client. Then is the client's responsibility to handle the function calls, dispatch them to the appropriate function, and return the results. If false (the default), the Spring AI will handle the function calls internally. Applicable only for chat models with function calling support | false

|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.java[VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiGeminiChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Function Calling

WARNING: As of 30th of April 2023, the Vertex AI `Gemini Pro` model has significantly degraded the support for function calling! While the feature is still available, it is not recommended for production use.
Apparently the Gemini Pro can not handle anymore the function name correctly.
The parallel function calling is gone as well.

You can register custom Java functions with the VertexAiGeminiChatModel and have the Gemini Pro model intelligently choose to output a JSON object containing arguments to call one or many of the registered functions.
This is a powerful technique to connect the LLM capabilities with external tools and APIs.
Read more about xref:api/chat/functions/vertexai-gemini-chat-functions.adoc[Vertex AI Gemini Function Calling].

== Multimodal

Multimodality refers to a model's ability to simultaneously understand and process information from various sources, including text, images, audio, and other data formats. This paradigm represents a significant advancement in AI models.

Google's Gemini AI models support this capability by comprehending and integrating text, code, audio, images, and video. For more details, refer to the blog post https://blog.google/technology/ai/google-gemini-ai/#introducing-gemini[Introducing Gemini].

Spring AI's `Message` interface supports multimodal AI models by introducing the Media type.
This type contains data and information about media attachments in messages, using Spring's `org.springframework.util.MimeType` and a `java.lang.Object` for the raw media data.

Below is a simple code example extracted from https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatModelIT.java[VertexAiGeminiChatModelIT.java], demonstrating the combination of user text with an image.


[source,java]
----
byte[] data = new ClassPathResource("/vertex-test.png").getContentAsByteArray();

var userMessage = new UserMessage("Explain what do you see o this picture?",
        List.of(new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, data)));

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(new Prompt(List.of(userMessage)));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.project-id=PROJECT_ID
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.location=LOCATION
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.model=vertex-pro-vision
spring.ai.vertex.ai.gemini.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiGeminiChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiGeminiChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiGeminiChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/gemini/VertexAiGeminiChatModel.java[VertexAiGeminiChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and uses the `VertexAI` to connect to the Vertex AI Gemini service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-gemini'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiGeminiChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAI vertexApi =  new VertexAI(projectId, location);

var chatModel = new VertexAiGeminiChatModel(vertexApi,
    VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.builder()
        .withModel(ChatModel.GEMINI_PRO_1_5_PRO)
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiGeminiChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

== Low-level Java Client [[low-level-api]]

Following class diagram illustrates the Vertex AI Gemini native Java API:

image::vertex-ai-gemini-native-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]
