spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/vertexai-palm2-chat.adoc, before:

= VertexAI PaLM2 Chat

The link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage[Generative Language] PaLM API allows developers to build generative AI applications using the PaLM model. Large Language Models (LLMs) are a powerful, versatile type of machine learning model that enables computers to comprehend and generate natural language through a series of prompts. The PaLM API is based on Google's next generation LLM, PaLM. It excels at a variety of different tasks like code generation, reasoning, and writing. You can use the PaLM API to build generative AI applications for use cases like content generation, dialogue agents, summarization and classification systems, and more.

Based on the link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage/models[Models REST API].

== Prerequisites

To access the PaLM2 REST API you need to obtain an access API KEY form link:https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey[makersuite].

NOTE: Currently the PaLM API it is not available outside US, but you can use VPN for testing.

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_VERTEX_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.ai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta3
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat client implementation for VertexAI Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.enabled | Enable Vertex AI PaLM API Chat client. | true
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model | This is the https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/text-chat[Vertex Chat model] to use | chat-bison-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.7
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | 20
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | 1
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/palm2/VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.java[VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model=chat-bison-001
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/paml2/VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient.java[VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the VertexAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiPaLm2Api vertexAiApi = new VertexAiPaLm2Api(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

var chatClient = new VertexAiPaLm2ChatClient(vertexAiApi,
    VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level VertexAiPaLm2Api Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-aipalm2/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/palm2/api/VertexAiPaLm2Api.java[VertexAiPaLm2Api] provides is lightweight Java client for VertexAiPaLm2Api Chat API.

Following class diagram illustrates the `VertexAiPaLm2Api` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::vertex-ai-chat-low-level-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiPaLm2Api vertexAiApi = new VertexAiPaLm2Api(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

// Generate
var prompt = new MessagePrompt(List.of(new Message("0", "Hello, how are you?")));

GenerateMessageRequest request = new GenerateMessageRequest(prompt);

GenerateMessageResponse response = vertexAiApi.generateMessage(request);

// Embed text
Embedding embedding = vertexAiApi.embedText("Hello, how are you?");

// Batch embedding
List<Embedding> embeddings = vertexAiApi.batchEmbedText(List.of("Hello, how are you?", "I am fine, thank you!"));
----

Commit message:

Refactoring of ChatClient to add fluent API and introduce Model as dependent object
* Rename the ModelClient class hierarchy into Model:
  - Rename ModelClient into Model. Update all code and doc references.
  - Rename ChatClient to ChatModel. Update all ChatClient suffixes and chatClient fields and variables in code and doc.
  - Rename EmbeddingClient into EmbeddingModel. Update the XxxEmbeddingClient class and variable suffixes and embeddingClient variables and fields in code and docs.
  - Rename ImageClient into ImageModel.
  - Rename SpeechClient into SpeechModel.
  - Rename TranscriptionClient into TranscriptionModel.
  - Update all javadocs and antora pages. Update the related diagrams.

* Create fluent API in ChatClient interface that now includes streaming support
* Add OpenAI FunctionCallbackWrapper2IT auto-config tests.
* Add ChatClientTest mockito testing.
* Add ChatModel#getDefaultOptions(), and remove @FunctionalInterface

* ChatModel enums extend the new ModelDescription interface.
* Implement fromOptions copy method in every ChatOptions implementation.
* Extend ChatClient to use the model default options if not provided explicitly.

* Update readme to provide guidance on how to adapt to breaking changes.

Co-authored-by: Christian Tzolov <ctzolov@vmware.com>
Co-authored-by: Mark Pollack <mpollack@vmware.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/vertexai-palm2-chat.adoc, after:

= VertexAI PaLM2 Chat

The link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage[Generative Language] PaLM API allows developers to build generative AI applications using the PaLM model. Large Language Models (LLMs) are a powerful, versatile type of machine learning model that enables computers to comprehend and generate natural language through a series of prompts. The PaLM API is based on Google's next generation LLM, PaLM. It excels at a variety of different tasks like code generation, reasoning, and writing. You can use the PaLM API to build generative AI applications for use cases like content generation, dialogue agents, summarization and classification systems, and more.

Based on the link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage/models[Models REST API].

== Prerequisites

To access the PaLM2 REST API you need to obtain an access API KEY form link:https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey[makersuite].

NOTE: Currently the PaLM API it is not available outside US, but you can use VPN for testing.

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_VERTEX_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.ai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta3
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat model implementation for VertexAI Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.enabled | Enable Vertex AI PaLM API chat model. | true
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model | This is the https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/text-chat[Vertex Chat model] to use | chat-bison-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.7
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | 20
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | 1
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/palm2/VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.java[VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model=chat-bison-001
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/paml2/VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel.java[VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the VertexAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm2</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-palm'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiPaLm2Api vertexAiApi = new VertexAiPaLm2Api(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

var chatModel = new VertexAiPaLm2ChatModel(vertexAiApi,
    VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiPaLm2ChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level VertexAiPaLm2Api Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-aipalm2/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/palm2/api/VertexAiPaLm2Api.java[VertexAiPaLm2Api] provides is lightweight Java client for VertexAiPaLm2Api Chat API.

Following class diagram illustrates the `VertexAiPaLm2Api` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::vertex-ai-chat-low-level-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiPaLm2Api vertexAiApi = new VertexAiPaLm2Api(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

// Generate
var prompt = new MessagePrompt(List.of(new Message("0", "Hello, how are you?")));

GenerateMessageRequest request = new GenerateMessageRequest(prompt);

GenerateMessageResponse response = vertexAiApi.generateMessage(request);

// Embed text
Embedding embedding = vertexAiApi.embedText("Hello, how are you?");

// Batch embedding
List<Embedding> embeddings = vertexAiApi.batchEmbedText(List.of("Hello, how are you?", "I am fine, thank you!"));
----
