spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc, before:

= Jurassic-2 Chat

https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/jurassic/[AI21 Labs Jurassic on Amazon Bedrock
] Jurassic is AI21 Labs’ family of reliable FMs for the enterprise, powering sophisticated language generation tasks – such as question answering, text generation, search, and summarization – across thousands of live applications.


== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Enable Jurassic-2

By default the Bedrock Jurassic-2 model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_JURASSIC2_CHAT_ENABLED=true
----

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use.  | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout    | AWS timeout to use. | 5m
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====


The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat client implementation for Jurassic-2.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Jurassic-2  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.model                | The model id to use (See Below) | ai21.j2-mid-v1
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.temperature          | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the model. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the model. | 0.7
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.top-p                | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The model uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.max-tokens          | Specify the maximum number of tokens to use in the generated response. The model truncates the response once the generated text exceeds maxTokens. | 500
|====

Look at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java#L164[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi#Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel]  for other model IDs. The other value supported is `ai21.j2-ultra-v1`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as temperature, topP, maxTokens, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Jurassic-2 Chat client:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=1000ms
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.temperature=0.8
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient] implements the `ChatClient`  uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Jurassic-2 service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient] and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi api = new Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi(Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel.AI21_J2_MID_V1.id(),
    EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(),
    Region.US_EAST_1.id(),
    new ObjectMapper(),
    Duration.ofMillis(1000L));

BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient chatClient = new BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatClient(api,
    BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.5f)
        .withMaxTokens(100)
        .withTopP(0.9f).build());

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

----

== Low-level Client [[low-level-api]]

https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi] provides a lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-jurassic2.html[Jurassic-2 and Jurassic-2 Chat models].

The `Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi` supports the `ai21.j2-mid-v1` and `ai21.j2-ultra-v1` models and only support synchronous  ( `chatCompletion()`).

Here is a simple snippet on how to use the API programmatically:


[source,java]
----
Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi jurassic2ChatApi = new Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi(
        Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel.AI21_J2_MID_V1.id(),
        Region.US_EAST_1.id(),
        Duration.ofMillis(1000L));

Ai21Jurassic2ChatRequest request = Ai21Jurassic2ChatRequest.builder("Hello, my name is")
        .withTemperature(0.9f)
        .withTopP(0.9f)
        .withMaxTokens(20)
        .build();

Ai21Jurassic2ChatResponse response = jurassic2ChatApi.chatCompletion(request);


----

Follow the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java]'s JavaDoc for further information.

Commit message:

Refactoring of ChatClient to add fluent API and introduce Model as dependent object
* Rename the ModelClient class hierarchy into Model:
  - Rename ModelClient into Model. Update all code and doc references.
  - Rename ChatClient to ChatModel. Update all ChatClient suffixes and chatClient fields and variables in code and doc.
  - Rename EmbeddingClient into EmbeddingModel. Update the XxxEmbeddingClient class and variable suffixes and embeddingClient variables and fields in code and docs.
  - Rename ImageClient into ImageModel.
  - Rename SpeechClient into SpeechModel.
  - Rename TranscriptionClient into TranscriptionModel.
  - Update all javadocs and antora pages. Update the related diagrams.

* Create fluent API in ChatClient interface that now includes streaming support
* Add OpenAI FunctionCallbackWrapper2IT auto-config tests.
* Add ChatClientTest mockito testing.
* Add ChatModel#getDefaultOptions(), and remove @FunctionalInterface

* ChatModel enums extend the new ModelDescription interface.
* Implement fromOptions copy method in every ChatOptions implementation.
* Extend ChatClient to use the model default options if not provided explicitly.

* Update readme to provide guidance on how to adapt to breaking changes.

Co-authored-by: Christian Tzolov <ctzolov@vmware.com>
Co-authored-by: Mark Pollack <mpollack@vmware.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc, after:

= Jurassic-2 Chat

https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/jurassic/[AI21 Labs Jurassic on Amazon Bedrock
] Jurassic is AI21 Labs’ family of reliable FMs for the enterprise, powering sophisticated language generation tasks – such as question answering, text generation, search, and summarization – across thousands of live applications.


== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Enable Jurassic-2

By default the Bedrock Jurassic-2 model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_JURASSIC2_CHAT_ENABLED=true
----

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use.  | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout    | AWS timeout to use. | 5m
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====


The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat model implementation for Jurassic-2.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Jurassic-2  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.model                | The model id to use (See Below) | ai21.j2-mid-v1
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.temperature          | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the model. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the model. | 0.7
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.top-p                | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The model uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.max-tokens          | Specify the maximum number of tokens to use in the generated response. The model truncates the response once the generated text exceeds maxTokens. | 500
|====

Look at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java#L164[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi#Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel]  for other model IDs. The other value supported is `ai21.j2-ultra-v1`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as temperature, topP, maxTokens, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Jurassic-2 chat model:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=1000ms
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.options.temperature=0.8
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel] implements the `ChatModel`  uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Jurassic-2 service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel.java[BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel] and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi api = new Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi(Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel.AI21_J2_MID_V1.id(),
    EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(),
    Region.US_EAST_1.id(),
    new ObjectMapper(),
    Duration.ofMillis(1000L));

BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel chatModel = new BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatModel(api,
    BedrockAi21Jurassic2ChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.5f)
        .withMaxTokens(100)
        .withTopP(0.9f).build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

----

== Low-level Client [[low-level-api]]

https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi] provides a lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-jurassic2.html[Jurassic-2 and Jurassic-2 Chat models].

The `Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi` supports the `ai21.j2-mid-v1` and `ai21.j2-ultra-v1` models and only support synchronous  ( `chatCompletion()`).

Here is a simple snippet on how to use the API programmatically:


[source,java]
----
Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi jurassic2ChatApi = new Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi(
        Ai21Jurassic2ChatModel.AI21_J2_MID_V1.id(),
        Region.US_EAST_1.id(),
        Duration.ofMillis(1000L));

Ai21Jurassic2ChatRequest request = Ai21Jurassic2ChatRequest.builder("Hello, my name is")
        .withTemperature(0.9f)
        .withTopP(0.9f)
        .withMaxTokens(20)
        .build();

Ai21Jurassic2ChatResponse response = jurassic2ChatApi.chatCompletion(request);


----

Follow the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/jurassic2/api/Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java[Ai21Jurassic2ChatBedrockApi.java]'s JavaDoc for further information.
