spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/mcp/mcp-server-boot-starter-docs.adoc, before:

= MCP Server Boot Starter

The Spring AI MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server Boot Starter provides auto-configuration for setting up an MCP server in Spring Boot applications. It enables seamless integration of MCP server capabilities with Spring Boot's auto-configuration system.

The MCP Server Boot Starter offers:

* Automatic configuration of MCP server components
* Support for both synchronous and asynchronous operation modes
* Multiple transport layer options
* Flexible tool, resource, and prompt specification
* Change notification capabilities

== Starters

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Choose one of the following starters based on your transport requirements:

=== Standard MCP Server

Full MCP Server features support with `STDIO` server transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

* Suitable for command-line and desktop tools
* No additional web dependencies required

The starter activates the `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configuration responsible for:

* Configuring the basic server components
* Handling tool, resource, and prompt specifications
* Managing server capabilities and change notifications
* Providing both sync and async server implementations

=== WebMVC Server Transport

Full MCP Server features support with `SSE` (Server-Sent Events) server transport based on Spring MVC and an optional `STDIO` transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

The starter activates the `McpWebMvcServerAutoConfiguration` and `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configurations to provide:

* HTTP-based transport using Spring MVC (`WebMvcSseServerTransportProvider`)
* Automatically configured SSE endpoints
* Optional `STDIO` transport (enabled by setting `spring.ai.mcp.server.stdio=true`)
* Included `spring-boot-starter-web` and `mcp-spring-webmvc` dependencies

=== WebFlux Server Transport

Full MCP Server features support with `SSE` (Server-Sent Events) server transport based on Spring WebFlux and an optional `STDIO` transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

The starter activates the `McpWebFluxServerAutoConfiguration` and `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configurations to provide:

* Reactive transport using Spring WebFlux (`WebFluxSseServerTransportProvider`)
* Automatically configured reactive SSE endpoints
* Optional `STDIO` transport (enabled by setting `spring.ai.mcp.server.stdio=true`)
* Included `spring-boot-starter-webflux` and `mcp-spring-webflux` dependencies

== Configuration Properties

All properties are prefixed with `spring.ai.mcp.server`:

[options="header"]
|===
|Property |Description |Default
|`enabled` |Enable/disable the MCP server |`true`
|`stdio` |Enable/disable stdio transport |`false`
|`name` |Server name for identification |`mcp-server`
|`version` |Server version |`1.0.0`
|`type` |Server type (SYNC/ASYNC) |`SYNC`
|`resource-change-notification` |Enable resource change notifications |`true`
|`prompt-change-notification` |Enable prompt change notifications |`true`
|`tool-change-notification` |Enable tool change notifications |`true`
|`tool-response-mime-type` |(optional) response MIME type per tool name. For example `spring.ai.mcp.server.tool-response-mime-type.generateImage=image/png` will associate the `image/png` mime type with the `generateImage()` tool name |`-`
|`sse-message-endpoint` |SSE endpoint path for web transport |`/mcp/message`
|===

== Sync/Async Server Types

* **Synchronous Server** - The default server type implemented using `McpSyncServer`. 
It is designed for straightforward request-response patterns in your applications. 
To enable this server type, set `spring.ai.mcp.server.type=SYNC` in your configuration. 
When activated, it automatically handles the configuration of synchronous tool specifications.

* **Asynchronous Server** - The asynchronous server implementation uses `McpAsyncServer` and is optimized for non-blocking operations. 
To enable this server type, configure your application with `spring.ai.mcp.server.type=ASYNC`. 
This server type automatically sets up asynchronous tool specifications with built-in Project Reactor support.

== Transport Options

The MCP Server supports three transport mechanisms, each with its dedicated starter:

* Standard Input/Output (STDIO) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server`
* Spring MVC (Server-Sent Events) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc`
* Spring WebFlux (Reactive SSE) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux`

== Features and Capabilities

The MCP Server Boot Starter allows servers to expose tools, resources, and prompts to clients.
It automatically converts custom capability handlers registered as Spring beans to sync/async specifications based on server type:

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/tools/[Tools]
Allows servers to expose tools that can be invoked by language models. The MCP Server Boot Starter provides:

* Change notification support
* Tools are automatically converted to sync/async specifications based on server type
* Automatic tool specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public ToolCallbackProvider myTools(...) {
    List<ToolCallback> tools = ...
    return ToolCallbackProvider.from(tools);
}
----

or using the low-level API:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncToolSpecification> myTools(...) {
    List<McpServerFeatures.SyncToolSpecification> tools = ...
    return tools;
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/resources/[Resource Management]

Provides a standardized way for servers to expose resources to clients.

* Static and dynamic resource specifications
* Optional change notifications
* Support for resource templates
* Automatic conversion between sync/async resource specifications
* Automatic resource specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncResourceSpecification> myResources(...) {
    var systemInfoResource = new McpSchema.Resource(...);
    var resourceSpecification = new McpServerFeatures.SyncResourceSpecification(systemInfoResource, (exchange, request) -> {
        try {
            var systemInfo = Map.of(...);
            String jsonContent = new ObjectMapper().writeValueAsString(systemInfo);
            return new McpSchema.ReadResourceResult(
                    List.of(new McpSchema.TextResourceContents(request.uri(), "application/json", jsonContent)));
        }
        catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Failed to generate system info", e);
        }
    });

    return List.of(resourceSpecification);
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/prompts/[Prompt Management]

Provides a standardized way for servers to expose prompt templates to clients.

* Change notification support
* Template versioning
* Automatic conversion between sync/async prompt specifications
* Automatic prompt specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncPromptSpecification> myPrompts() {
    var prompt = new McpSchema.Prompt("greeting", "A friendly greeting prompt",
        List.of(new McpSchema.PromptArgument("name", "The name to greet", true)));

    var promptSpecification = new McpServerFeatures.SyncPromptSpecification(prompt, (exchange, getPromptRequest) -> {
        String nameArgument = (String) getPromptRequest.arguments().get("name");
        if (nameArgument == null) { nameArgument = "friend"; }
        var userMessage = new PromptMessage(Role.USER, new TextContent("Hello " + nameArgument + "! How can I assist you today?"));
        return new GetPromptResult("A personalized greeting message", List.of(userMessage));
    });

    return List.of(promptSpecification);
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/client/roots/#root-list-changes[Root Change Consumers]

When roots change, clients that support `listChanged` send a Root Change notification.

* Support for monitoring root changes
* Automatic conversion to async consumers for reactive applications
* Optional registration through Spring beans

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public BiConsumer<McpSyncServerExchange, List<McpSchema.Root>> rootsChangeHandler() {
    return (exchange, roots) -> {
        logger.info("Registering root resources: {}", roots);
    };
}
----

== Usage Examples

=== Standard STDIO Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: stdio-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: SYNC
----

=== WebMVC Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: webmvc-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: SYNC
        sse-message-endpoint: /mcp/messages
----

=== WebFlux Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: webflux-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: ASYNC  # Recommended for reactive applications
        sse-message-endpoint: /mcp/messages
----

=== Creating a Spring Boot Application with MCP Server

[source,java]
----
@Service
public class WeatherService {

    @Tool(description = "Get weather information by city name")
    public String getWeather(String cityName) {
        // Implementation
    }
}

@SpringBootApplication
public class McpServerApplication {

    private static final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(McpServerApplication.class);

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(McpServerApplication.class, args);
    }

	@Bean
	public ToolCallbackProvider weatherTools(WeatherService weatherService) {
		return MethodToolCallbackProvider.builder().toolObjects(weatherService).build();
	}
}
----

The auto-configuration will automatically register the tool callbacks as MCP tools.
You can have multiple beans producing ToolCallbacks. The auto-configuration will merge them.

== Example Applications
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/starter-webflux-server[Weather Server (WebFlux)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with WebFlux transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/starter-stdio-server[Weather Server (STDIO)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with STDIO transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/book-library/starter-webflux-server[Book Library Server (WebFlux)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with WebFlux transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/manual-webflux-server[Weather Server Manual Configuration] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter that doesn't use auto-configuration but the Java SDK to configure the server manually.

== Additional Resources

* link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/[Spring AI Documentation]
* link:https://modelcontextprotocol.github.io/specification/[Model Context Protocol Specification]
* link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/features.html#features.developing-auto-configuration[Spring Boot Auto-configuration]

Commit message:

feat(mcp): update WebFlux and WebMvc server transport providers with URL configuration
- Update MCP SDK version to 0.9.0
- Add baseUrl and sseEndpoint properties to McpServerProperties
- Update WebFlux and WebMvc server transport providers to use new URL configuration properties
- Remove deprecated backward compatibility code and related tests
- Remove deprecated methods from McpToolUtils
- Update MCP SDK version to 0.9.0-SNAPSHOT
- Add tool filtering capability to MCP Tool Callback Providers
  Introduces a BiPredicate-based filtering mechanism for both Sync and Async
  MCP Tool Callback Providers, allowing selective tool discovery based on
  custom criteria. This enables filtering tools by name, client, or
  any combination of properties.
  * Apply filter in getToolCallbacks() methods for both providers
  * Add  tests for various filtering scenarios
- Add utility method to retrieve MCP exchange from tool context
 * Add constant TOOL_CONTEXT_MCP_EXCHANGE_KEY to replace hardcoded exchange string
 * Implement getMcpExchange utility method to safely retrieve the MCP exchange object

Signed-off-by: Christian Tzolov <christian.tzolov@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/mcp/mcp-server-boot-starter-docs.adoc, after:

= MCP Server Boot Starter

The Spring AI MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server Boot Starter provides auto-configuration for setting up an MCP server in Spring Boot applications. It enables seamless integration of MCP server capabilities with Spring Boot's auto-configuration system.

The MCP Server Boot Starter offers:

* Automatic configuration of MCP server components
* Support for both synchronous and asynchronous operation modes
* Multiple transport layer options
* Flexible tool, resource, and prompt specification
* Change notification capabilities

== Starters

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Choose one of the following starters based on your transport requirements:

=== Standard MCP Server

Full MCP Server features support with `STDIO` server transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

* Suitable for command-line and desktop tools
* No additional web dependencies required

The starter activates the `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configuration responsible for:

* Configuring the basic server components
* Handling tool, resource, and prompt specifications
* Managing server capabilities and change notifications
* Providing both sync and async server implementations

=== WebMVC Server Transport

Full MCP Server features support with `SSE` (Server-Sent Events) server transport based on Spring MVC and an optional `STDIO` transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

The starter activates the `McpWebMvcServerAutoConfiguration` and `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configurations to provide:

* HTTP-based transport using Spring MVC (`WebMvcSseServerTransportProvider`)
* Automatically configured SSE endpoints
* Optional `STDIO` transport (enabled by setting `spring.ai.mcp.server.stdio=true`)
* Included `spring-boot-starter-web` and `mcp-spring-webmvc` dependencies

=== WebFlux Server Transport

Full MCP Server features support with `SSE` (Server-Sent Events) server transport based on Spring WebFlux and an optional `STDIO` transport.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

The starter activates the `McpWebFluxServerAutoConfiguration` and `McpServerAutoConfiguration` auto-configurations to provide:

* Reactive transport using Spring WebFlux (`WebFluxSseServerTransportProvider`)
* Automatically configured reactive SSE endpoints
* Optional `STDIO` transport (enabled by setting `spring.ai.mcp.server.stdio=true`)
* Included `spring-boot-starter-webflux` and `mcp-spring-webflux` dependencies

== Configuration Properties

All properties are prefixed with `spring.ai.mcp.server`:

[options="header"]
|===
|Property |Description |Default
|`enabled` |Enable/disable the MCP server |`true`
|`stdio` |Enable/disable stdio transport |`false`
|`name` |Server name for identification |`mcp-server`
|`version` |Server version |`1.0.0`
|`type` |Server type (SYNC/ASYNC) |`SYNC`
|`resource-change-notification` |Enable resource change notifications |`true`
|`prompt-change-notification` |Enable prompt change notifications |`true`
|`tool-change-notification` |Enable tool change notifications |`true`
|`tool-response-mime-type` |(optional) response MIME type per tool name. For example `spring.ai.mcp.server.tool-response-mime-type.generateImage=image/png` will associate the `image/png` mime type with the `generateImage()` tool name |`-`
|`sse-message-endpoint` | Custom SSE Message endpoint path for web transport to be used by the client to send messages|`/mcp/message`
|`sse-endpoint` |Custom SSE endpoint path for web transport |`/sse`
|`base-url` | Optional URL prefix. For example `base-url=/api/v1` means that the client should access the sse endpont at `/api/v1` + `sse-endpoint` and the message endpoint is `/api/v1` + `sse-message-endpoint` | -
|===

== Sync/Async Server Types

* **Synchronous Server** - The default server type implemented using `McpSyncServer`. 
It is designed for straightforward request-response patterns in your applications. 
To enable this server type, set `spring.ai.mcp.server.type=SYNC` in your configuration. 
When activated, it automatically handles the configuration of synchronous tool specifications.

* **Asynchronous Server** - The asynchronous server implementation uses `McpAsyncServer` and is optimized for non-blocking operations. 
To enable this server type, configure your application with `spring.ai.mcp.server.type=ASYNC`. 
This server type automatically sets up asynchronous tool specifications with built-in Project Reactor support.

== Transport Options

The MCP Server supports three transport mechanisms, each with its dedicated starter:

* Standard Input/Output (STDIO) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server`
* Spring MVC (Server-Sent Events) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc`
* Spring WebFlux (Reactive SSE) - `spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux`

== Features and Capabilities

The MCP Server Boot Starter allows servers to expose tools, resources, and prompts to clients.
It automatically converts custom capability handlers registered as Spring beans to sync/async specifications based on server type:

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/tools/[Tools]
Allows servers to expose tools that can be invoked by language models. The MCP Server Boot Starter provides:

* Change notification support
* Tools are automatically converted to sync/async specifications based on server type
* Automatic tool specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public ToolCallbackProvider myTools(...) {
    List<ToolCallback> tools = ...
    return ToolCallbackProvider.from(tools);
}
----

or using the low-level API:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncToolSpecification> myTools(...) {
    List<McpServerFeatures.SyncToolSpecification> tools = ...
    return tools;
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/resources/[Resource Management]

Provides a standardized way for servers to expose resources to clients.

* Static and dynamic resource specifications
* Optional change notifications
* Support for resource templates
* Automatic conversion between sync/async resource specifications
* Automatic resource specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncResourceSpecification> myResources(...) {
    var systemInfoResource = new McpSchema.Resource(...);
    var resourceSpecification = new McpServerFeatures.SyncResourceSpecification(systemInfoResource, (exchange, request) -> {
        try {
            var systemInfo = Map.of(...);
            String jsonContent = new ObjectMapper().writeValueAsString(systemInfo);
            return new McpSchema.ReadResourceResult(
                    List.of(new McpSchema.TextResourceContents(request.uri(), "application/json", jsonContent)));
        }
        catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Failed to generate system info", e);
        }
    });

    return List.of(resourceSpecification);
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/server/prompts/[Prompt Management]

Provides a standardized way for servers to expose prompt templates to clients.

* Change notification support
* Template versioning
* Automatic conversion between sync/async prompt specifications
* Automatic prompt specification through Spring beans:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public List<McpServerFeatures.SyncPromptSpecification> myPrompts() {
    var prompt = new McpSchema.Prompt("greeting", "A friendly greeting prompt",
        List.of(new McpSchema.PromptArgument("name", "The name to greet", true)));

    var promptSpecification = new McpServerFeatures.SyncPromptSpecification(prompt, (exchange, getPromptRequest) -> {
        String nameArgument = (String) getPromptRequest.arguments().get("name");
        if (nameArgument == null) { nameArgument = "friend"; }
        var userMessage = new PromptMessage(Role.USER, new TextContent("Hello " + nameArgument + "! How can I assist you today?"));
        return new GetPromptResult("A personalized greeting message", List.of(userMessage));
    });

    return List.of(promptSpecification);
}
----

=== link:https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/client/roots/#root-list-changes[Root Change Consumers]

When roots change, clients that support `listChanged` send a Root Change notification.

* Support for monitoring root changes
* Automatic conversion to async consumers for reactive applications
* Optional registration through Spring beans

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public BiConsumer<McpSyncServerExchange, List<McpSchema.Root>> rootsChangeHandler() {
    return (exchange, roots) -> {
        logger.info("Registering root resources: {}", roots);
    };
}
----

== Usage Examples

=== Standard STDIO Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: stdio-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: SYNC
----

=== WebMVC Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webmvc
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: webmvc-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: SYNC
        sse-message-endpoint: /mcp/messages
----

=== WebFlux Server Configuration
[source,yaml]
----
# Using spring-ai-starter-mcp-server-webflux
spring:
  ai:
    mcp:
      server:
        name: webflux-mcp-server
        version: 1.0.0
        type: ASYNC  # Recommended for reactive applications
        sse-message-endpoint: /mcp/messages
----

=== Creating a Spring Boot Application with MCP Server

[source,java]
----
@Service
public class WeatherService {

    @Tool(description = "Get weather information by city name")
    public String getWeather(String cityName) {
        // Implementation
    }
}

@SpringBootApplication
public class McpServerApplication {

    private static final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(McpServerApplication.class);

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(McpServerApplication.class, args);
    }

	@Bean
	public ToolCallbackProvider weatherTools(WeatherService weatherService) {
		return MethodToolCallbackProvider.builder().toolObjects(weatherService).build();
	}
}
----

The auto-configuration will automatically register the tool callbacks as MCP tools.
You can have multiple beans producing ToolCallbacks. The auto-configuration will merge them.

== Example Applications
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/starter-webflux-server[Weather Server (WebFlux)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with WebFlux transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/starter-stdio-server[Weather Server (STDIO)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with STDIO transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/book-library/starter-webflux-server[Book Library Server (WebFlux)] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter with WebFlux transport.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai-examples/tree/main/model-context-protocol/weather/manual-webflux-server[Weather Server Manual Configuration] - Spring AI MCP Server Boot Starter that doesn't use auto-configuration but the Java SDK to configure the server manually.

== Additional Resources

* link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/[Spring AI Documentation]
* link:https://modelcontextprotocol.github.io/specification/[Model Context Protocol Specification]
* link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/features.html#features.developing-auto-configuration[Spring Boot Auto-configuration]
