spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/mcp/mcp-helpers.adoc, before:

= MCP Utilities
:page-title: Spring AI MCP Utilities

The MCP utilities provide foundational support for integrating Model Context Protocol with Spring AI applications. 
These utilities enable seamless communication between Spring AI's tool system and MCP servers, supporting both synchronous and asynchronous operations.
They are typically used for programmatic MCP Client and Server configuration and interaction.
For a more streamlined configuration, consider using the boot starters.

== ToolCallback Utility

=== Tool Callback Adapter

Adapts MCP tools to Spring AI's tool interface with both synchronous and asynchronous execution support.

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
McpSyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
Tool mcpTool = // obtain MCP tool definition
ToolCallback callback = new SyncMcpToolCallback(mcpClient, mcpTool);

// Use the tool through Spring AI's interfaces
ToolDefinition definition = callback.getToolDefinition();
String result = callback.call("{\"param\": \"value\"}");
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
McpAsyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
Tool mcpTool = // obtain MCP tool definition
ToolCallback callback = new AsyncMcpToolCallback(mcpClient, mcpTool);

// Use the tool through Spring AI's interfaces
ToolDefinition definition = callback.getToolDefinition();
String result = callback.call("{\"param\": \"value\"}");
----
======

=== Tool Callback Providers

Discovers and provides MCP tools from MCP clients.

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
McpSyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
ToolCallbackProvider provider = new SyncMcpToolCallbackProvider(mcpClient);

// Get all available tools
ToolCallback[] tools = provider.getToolCallbacks();
----
+
For multiple clients:
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpSyncClient> clients = // obtain list of clients
List<ToolCallback> callbacks = SyncMcpToolCallbackProvider.syncToolCallbacks(clients);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
McpAsyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
ToolCallbackProvider provider = new AsyncMcpToolCallbackProvider(mcpClient);

// Get all available tools
ToolCallback[] tools = provider.getToolCallbacks();
----
+
For multiple clients:
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpAsyncClient> clients = // obtain list of clients
Flux<ToolCallback> callbacks = AsyncMcpToolCallbackProvider.asyncToolCallbacks(clients);
----
======

== McpToolUtils

=== ToolCallbacks to ToolRegistrations

Converting Spring AI tool callbacks to MCP tool registrations:

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
List<ToolCallback> toolCallbacks = // obtain tool callbacks
List<SyncToolRegistration> syncToolRegs = McpToolUtils.toSyncToolRegistration(toolCallbacks);
----
+
then you can use the `McpServer.SyncSpec` to register the tool registrations:
+
[source,java]
----
McpServer.SyncSpec syncSpec = ...
syncSpec.tools(syncToolRegs);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
List<ToolCallback> toolCallbacks = // obtain tool callbacks
List<AsyncToolRegistration> asyncToolRegs = McpToolUtils.toAsyncToolRegistration(toolCallbacks);
----
+
then you can use the `McpServer.AsyncSpec` to register the tool registrations:
+
[source,java]
----
McpServer.AsyncSpec asyncSpec = ...
asyncSpec.tools(asyncToolRegs);
----
======

=== MCP Clients to ToolCallbacks

Getting tool callbacks from MCP clients

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpSyncClient> syncClients = // obtain sync clients
List<ToolCallback> syncCallbacks = McpToolUtils.getToolCallbacksFromSyncClients(syncClients);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpAsyncClient> asyncClients = // obtain async clients
List<ToolCallback> asyncCallbacks = McpToolUtils.getToolCallbacksFromAsyncClients(asyncClients);
----
======

== Native Image Support

The `McpHints` class provides GraalVM native image hints for MCP schema classes.
This class automatically registers all necessary reflection hints for MCP schema classes when building native images.

Commit message:

feat(mcp): Refactor MCP server API to use Specification pattern
- Rename Registration classes to Specification (SyncToolRegistration → SyncToolSpecification)
- Update transport classes to use Provider suffix (WebFluxSseServerTransport → WebFluxSseServerTransportProvider)
- Add exchange parameter to handler methods for better context passing
- Introduce McpBackwardCompatibility class to maintain backward compatibility
- Update MCP Server documentation to reflect new API patterns
- Add tests for backward compatibility
- Update mcp version to 0.8.0
- Add mcp 0.8.0 breaking change note-

The changes align with the MCP specification evolution while maintaining backward compatibility through deprecated APIs.

refactor: Extract MCP tool callback configuration into separate auto-configuration

Extracts the MCP tool callback functionality from McpClientAutoConfiguration into a
new dedicated McpToolCallbackAutoConfiguration that is disabled by default.

- Created new McpToolCallbackAutoConfiguration class that handles tool callback registration
- Made tool callbacks opt-in by requiring explicit configuration with spring.ai.mcp.client.toolcallback.enabled=true
- Removed deprecated tool callback methods from McpClientAutoConfiguration
- Updated ClientMcpTransport references to McpClientTransport to align with MCP library changes
- Added tests for the new auto-configuration and its conditions

refactor: standardize tool names to use underscores instead of hyphens

- Change separator in McpToolUtils.prefixedToolName from hyphen to underscore
- Add conversion of any remaining hyphens to underscores in formatted tool names
- Update affected tests to reflect the new naming convention
- Add comprehensive tests for McpToolUtils.prefixedToolName method
- Add integration test for payment transaction tools with Vertex AI Gemini

Signed-off-by: Christian Tzolov <christian.tzolov@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/mcp/mcp-helpers.adoc, after:

= MCP Utilities
:page-title: Spring AI MCP Utilities

The MCP utilities provide foundational support for integrating Model Context Protocol with Spring AI applications. 
These utilities enable seamless communication between Spring AI's tool system and MCP servers, supporting both synchronous and asynchronous operations.
They are typically used for programmatic MCP Client and Server configuration and interaction.
For a more streamlined configuration, consider using the boot starters.

== ToolCallback Utility

=== Tool Callback Adapter

Adapts MCP tools to Spring AI's tool interface with both synchronous and asynchronous execution support.

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
McpSyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
Tool mcpTool = // obtain MCP tool definition
ToolCallback callback = new SyncMcpToolCallback(mcpClient, mcpTool);

// Use the tool through Spring AI's interfaces
ToolDefinition definition = callback.getToolDefinition();
String result = callback.call("{\"param\": \"value\"}");
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
McpAsyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
Tool mcpTool = // obtain MCP tool definition
ToolCallback callback = new AsyncMcpToolCallback(mcpClient, mcpTool);

// Use the tool through Spring AI's interfaces
ToolDefinition definition = callback.getToolDefinition();
String result = callback.call("{\"param\": \"value\"}");
----
======

=== Tool Callback Providers

Discovers and provides MCP tools from MCP clients.

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
McpSyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
ToolCallbackProvider provider = new SyncMcpToolCallbackProvider(mcpClient);

// Get all available tools
ToolCallback[] tools = provider.getToolCallbacks();
----
+
For multiple clients:
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpSyncClient> clients = // obtain list of clients
List<ToolCallback> callbacks = SyncMcpToolCallbackProvider.syncToolCallbacks(clients);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
McpAsyncClient mcpClient = // obtain MCP client
ToolCallbackProvider provider = new AsyncMcpToolCallbackProvider(mcpClient);

// Get all available tools
ToolCallback[] tools = provider.getToolCallbacks();
----
+
For multiple clients:
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpAsyncClient> clients = // obtain list of clients
Flux<ToolCallback> callbacks = AsyncMcpToolCallbackProvider.asyncToolCallbacks(clients);
----
======

== McpToolUtils

=== ToolCallbacks to ToolSpecifications

Converting Spring AI tool callbacks to MCP tool specifications:

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
List<ToolCallback> toolCallbacks = // obtain tool callbacks
List<SyncToolSpecifications> syncToolSpecs = McpToolUtils.toSyncToolSpecifications(toolCallbacks);
----
+
then you can use the `McpServer.SyncSpecification` to register the tool specifications:
+
[source,java]
----
McpServer.SyncSpecification syncSpec = ...
syncSpec.tools(syncToolSpecs);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
List<ToolCallback> toolCallbacks = // obtain tool callbacks
List<AsyncToolSpecification> asyncToolSpecificaitons = McpToolUtils.toAsyncToolSpecifications(toolCallbacks);
----
+
then you can use the `McpServer.AsyncSpecification` to register the tool specifications:
+
[source,java]
----
McpServer.AsyncSpecification asyncSpec = ...
asyncSpec.tools(asyncToolSpecificaitons);
----
======

=== MCP Clients to ToolCallbacks

Getting tool callbacks from MCP clients

[tabs]
======
Sync::
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpSyncClient> syncClients = // obtain sync clients
List<ToolCallback> syncCallbacks = McpToolUtils.getToolCallbacksFromSyncClients(syncClients);
----

Async::
+
[source,java]
----
List<McpAsyncClient> asyncClients = // obtain async clients
List<ToolCallback> asyncCallbacks = McpToolUtils.getToolCallbacksFromAsyncClients(asyncClients);
----
======

== Native Image Support

The `McpHints` class provides GraalVM native image hints for MCP schema classes.
This class automatically registers all necessary reflection hints for MCP schema classes when building native images.
