spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/openai.adoc, before:

= OpenAI

Spring AI supports ChatGPT, the AI language model by OpenAI. ChatGPT has been instrumental in sparking interest in AI-driven text generation, thanks to its creation of industry-leading text generation models and embeddings.

== Getting Started

You will need to create an API with OpenAI to access ChatGPT models.

Create an account at https://platform.openai.com/signup[OpenAI signup page] and generate the token on the https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys[API Keys page].

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from openai.com.

Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Project Dependencies

Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#_dependency_management[Dependency Management] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Then add the Spring Boot Starter dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` build file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----


== Sample Code

This will create a `ChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `ChatClient` implementation.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final ChatClient chatClient;
    private final StreamingChatClient streamingChatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(ChatClient chatClient, StreamingChatClient streamingChatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
        this.streamingChatClient = streamingChatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/open-ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/open-ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return streamingChatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== OpenAI Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.openai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.openai.com
| spring.ai.openai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ChatClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.openai.chat.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.api-key   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.model | This is the OpenAI Chat model to use | `gpt-35-turbo` (the `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4`, and `gpt-4-32k` point to the latest model versions)
| spring.ai.openai.chat.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.7
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.embedding` is property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url | -
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.api-key    | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key  | -
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.model      | The model to use      | text-embedding-ada-002
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.openai.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.api-key` for the `ChatClient` and `EmbeddingClient` implementations.
The `spring.ai.openai.chat.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.chat.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
Similarly, the `spring.ai.openai.embedding.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.embedding.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different OpenAI accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

Also by default, the `spring.ai.openai.chat.model` is set to `gpt-35-turbo` and the `spring.ai.openai.embedding.model` is set to `text-embedding-ada-002`.

Commit message:

Add OpenAi Chat Options
Add OpenAiChatOptions

 - OpenAiChatOptions implements ChatOptions and exposes all OpenAi request options, except messages and stream.
 - Add OpenAiChatOptions field (as defaultOptions) to OpenAiChatClient. Implement star-up/runtime options merging on chat request creation
 - Add OpenAiChatOptions options field to OpenAiChatProperties. Later is set as OpenAiChatClient#defaultOptions. Use the spring.ai.openai.chat.options.* prefix to set the options.
 - Add tests for properties and options merging.
 - Move the OpenAiChatOptions.java out of the api package

Add OpenAiEmbeddingOptions

 - Add OpenAiEmbeddingOptions class implementing the EmbeddingOptions interface.
 - Add OpenAiEmbeddingClient#defaultOptions
 - Add request merging with default and propmt options.
 - Add OopenAiEmbeddingProperties#options field of type OpenAiEmbeddingOptions

Update OpenAI client docs

Part of the larger 'epic' issue #228

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/openai.adoc, after:

= OpenAI

Spring AI supports ChatGPT, the AI language model by OpenAI. ChatGPT has been instrumental in sparking interest in AI-driven text generation, thanks to its creation of industry-leading text generation models and embeddings.

== Getting Started

You will need to create an API with OpenAI to access ChatGPT models.

Create an account at https://platform.openai.com/signup[OpenAI signup page] and generate the token on the https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys[API Keys page].

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from openai.com.

Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Project Dependencies

Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#_dependency_management[Dependency Management] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Then add the Spring Boot Starter dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` build file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----


== Sample Code

This will create a `ChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `ChatClient` implementation.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final ChatClient chatClient;
    private final StreamingChatClient streamingChatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(ChatClient chatClient, StreamingChatClient streamingChatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
        this.streamingChatClient = streamingChatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/open-ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/open-ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return streamingChatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== OpenAiChatOptions

The http://OpenAiChatOptions.java[OpenAiChatOptions.java] allows you to configure OpenAI options, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.
You can assign the default options, at startup, to the `OpenAiChatClient` using the `withDefaultOptions()` method. You can also override the default options at runtime by passing in the `OpenAiChatOptions` object to the `Prompt` constructor.

The default options can be configured using the `spring.ai.openai.chat.options` properties as well.

== OpenAI Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.openai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.openai.com
| spring.ai.openai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ChatClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.openai.chat.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.api-key   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.model | This is the OpenAI Chat model to use | `gpt-35-turbo` (the `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4`, and `gpt-4-32k` point to the latest model versions)
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.temperature | The sampling temperature to use that controls the apparent creativity of generated completions. Higher values will make output more random while lower values will make results more focused and deterministic. It is not recommended to modify temperature and top_p for the same completions request as the interaction of these two settings is difficult to predict. | 0.8
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.frequencyPenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim. | 0.0f
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.logitBias | Modify the likelihood of specified tokens appearing in the completion. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.maxTokens | The maximum number of tokens to generate in the chat completion. The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the model's context length. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.n | How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message. Note that you will be charged based on the number of generated tokens across all of the choices. Keep n as 1 to minimize costs. | 1
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.presencePenalty | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.responseFormat | An object specifying the format that the model must output. Setting to `{ "type": "json_object" }` enables JSON mode, which guarantees the message the model generates is valid JSON.| -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.seed | This feature is in Beta. If specified, our system will make a best effort to sample deterministically, such that repeated requests with the same seed and parameters should return the same result. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.stop | Up to 4 sequences where the API will stop generating further tokens. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.topP | An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered. We generally recommend altering this or temperature but not both. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.tools | A list of tools the model may call. Currently, only functions are supported as a tool. Use this to provide a list of functions the model may generate JSON inputs for. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.toolChoice | Controls which (if any) function is called by the model. none means the model will not call a function and instead generates a message. auto means the model can pick between generating a message or calling a function. Specifying a particular function via {"type: "function", "function": {"name": "my_function"}} forces the model to call that function. none is the default when no functions are present. auto is the default if functions are present. | -
| spring.ai.openai.chat.options.user | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.embedding` is property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url | -
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.api-key    | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key  | -
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.model      | The model to use      | text-embedding-ada-002
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.encodingFormat   | The format to return the embeddings in. Can be either float or base64.  | -
| spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.user   | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse.  | -
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.openai.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.api-key` for the `ChatClient` and `EmbeddingClient` implementations.
The `spring.ai.openai.chat.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.chat.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
Similarly, the `spring.ai.openai.embedding.base-url` and `spring.ai.openai.embedding.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different OpenAI accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

Also by default, the `spring.ai.openai.chat.options.model` is set to `gpt-35-turbo` and the `spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.model` is set to `text-embedding-ada-002`.
