spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/vertexai-chat.adoc, before:

= VertexAI Chat

The link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage[Generative Language] PaLM API allows developers to build generative AI applications using the PaLM model. Large Language Models (LLMs) are a powerful, versatile type of machine learning model that enables computers to comprehend and generate natural language through a series of prompts. The PaLM API is based on Google's next generation LLM, PaLM. It excels at a variety of different tasks like code generation, reasoning, and writing. You can use the PaLM API to build generative AI applications for use cases like content generation, dialogue agents, summarization and classification systems, and more.

Based on the link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage/models[Models REST API].

== Prerequisites

To access the PaLM2 REST API you need to obtain an access API KEY form link:https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey[makersuite].

NOTE: Currently the PaLM API it is not available outside US, but you can use VPN for testing.

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_VERTEX_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#_dependency_management[Dependency Management] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.ai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta3
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat client implementation for VertexAI Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model | This is the https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/text-chat[Vertex Chat model] to use | chat-bison-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.7
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | 20
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | 1
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

=== Chat Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/VertexAiChatOptions.java[VertexAiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

=== Sample Controller (Auto-configuration)

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model=chat-bison-001
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/VertexAiChatClient.java[VertexAiChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the VertexAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#_dependency_management[Dependency Management] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiChatClient` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiApi vertexAiApi = new VertexAiApi(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

var chatClient = new VertexAiChatClient(vertexAiApi,
    VertexAiChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level VertexAiApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/api/VertexAiApi.java[VertexAiApi] provides is lightweight Java client for VertexAiApi Chat API.

Following class diagram illustrates the `VertexAiApi` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::vertex-ai-chat-low-level-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiApi vertexAiApi = new VertexAiApi(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

// Generate
var prompt = new MessagePrompt(List.of(new Message("0", "Hello, how are you?")));

GenerateMessageRequest request = new GenerateMessageRequest(prompt);

GenerateMessageResponse response = vertexAiApi.generateMessage(request);

// Embed text
Embedding embedding = vertexAiApi.embedText("Hello, how are you?");

// Batch embedding
List<Embedding> embeddings = vertexAiApi.batchEmbedText(List.of("Hello, how are you?", "I am fine, thank you!"));
----

Commit message:

Add additional pointers to help setup dependencies in each ChatClient and EmbeddingClient docs

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/vertexai-chat.adoc, after:

= VertexAI Chat

The link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage[Generative Language] PaLM API allows developers to build generative AI applications using the PaLM model. Large Language Models (LLMs) are a powerful, versatile type of machine learning model that enables computers to comprehend and generate natural language through a series of prompts. The PaLM API is based on Google's next generation LLM, PaLM. It excels at a variety of different tasks like code generation, reasoning, and writing. You can use the PaLM API to build generative AI applications for use cases like content generation, dialogue agents, summarization and classification systems, and more.

Based on the link:https://developers.generativeai.google/api/rest/generativelanguage/models[Models REST API].

== Prerequisites

To access the PaLM2 REST API you need to obtain an access API KEY form link:https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey[makersuite].

NOTE: Currently the PaLM API it is not available outside US, but you can use VPN for testing.

The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_VERTEX_AI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.ai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta3
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat` is the property prefix that lets you configure the chat client implementation for VertexAI Chat.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model | This is the https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/generative-ai/model-reference/text-chat[Vertex Chat model] to use | chat-bison-001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0], inclusive. A value closer to 1.0 will produce responses that are more varied, while a value closer to 0.0 will typically result in less surprising responses from the generative. This value specifies default to be used by the backend while making the call to the generative. | 0.7
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topK | The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Top-k sampling considers the set of topK most probable tokens. | 20
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.topP | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. The generative uses combined Top-k and nucleus sampling. Nucleus sampling considers the smallest set of tokens whose probability sum is at least topP.  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.candidateCount | The number of generated response messages to return. This value must be between [1, 8], inclusive. Defaults to 1. | 1
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

=== Chat Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/VertexAiChatOptions.java[VertexAiChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the temperature, the topK, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `VertexAiChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        VertexAiChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific `VertexAiChatOptions` you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

=== Sample Controller (Auto-configuration)

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the VertexAi Chat client:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.vertex.ai.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.model=chat-bison-001
spring.ai.vertex.ai.chat.options.temperature=0.5
----

TIP: replace the `api-key` with your VertexAI credentials.

This will create a `VertexAiChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final VertexAiChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(VertexAiChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/VertexAiChatClient.java[VertexAiChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the VertexAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiChatClient` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiApi vertexAiApi = new VertexAiApi(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

var chatClient = new VertexAiChatClient(vertexAiApi,
    VertexAiChatOptions.builder()
        .withTemperature(0.4)
    .build());

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `VertexAiChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `VertexAiChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

=== Low-level VertexAiApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertex/api/VertexAiApi.java[VertexAiApi] provides is lightweight Java client for VertexAiApi Chat API.

Following class diagram illustrates the `VertexAiApi` chat interfaces and building blocks:

image::vertex-ai-chat-low-level-api.jpg[w=800,align="center"]

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiApi vertexAiApi = new VertexAiApi(< YOUR PALM_API_KEY>);

// Generate
var prompt = new MessagePrompt(List.of(new Message("0", "Hello, how are you?")));

GenerateMessageRequest request = new GenerateMessageRequest(prompt);

GenerateMessageResponse response = vertexAiApi.generateMessage(request);

// Embed text
Embedding embedding = vertexAiApi.embedText("Hello, how are you?");

// Batch embedding
List<Embedding> embeddings = vertexAiApi.batchEmbedText(List.of("Hello, how are you?", "I am fine, thank you!"));
----
