spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc, before:

= Cohere Chat

Provides Bedrock Cohere Chat client.
Integrate generative AI capabilities into essential apps and workflows that improve business outcomes.

The https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/cohere-command-embed/[AWS Bedrock Cohere Model Page] and https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock User Guide] contains detailed information on how to use the AWS hosted model.

== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
  <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

=== Enable Cohere Chat Support

By default the Cohere model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_COHERE_CHAT_ENABLED=true
----

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use. | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat client implementation for Cohere.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Cohere  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.model                | The model id to use. See the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java#L326C14-L326C29[CohereChatModel] for the supported models.  | cohere.command-text-v14
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.temperature  | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0]  | 0.7
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.topP  | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling.  | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.topK  | Specify the number of token choices the model uses to generate the next token  | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.maxTokens  | Specify the maximum number of tokens to use in the generated response. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.stopSequences  | Configure up to four sequences that the model recognizes. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.returnLikelihoods  | The token likelihoods are returned with the response. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.numGenerations  | The maximum number of generations that the model should return. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.logitBias  | Prevents the model from generating unwanted tokens or incentivize the model to include desired tokens. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.truncate  |  Specifies how the API handles inputs longer than the maximum token length | AWS Bedrock default
|====

Look at the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java#L326C14-L326C29[CohereChatModel] for other model IDs.
Supported values are: `cohere.command-light-text-v14` and `cohere.command-text-v14`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

=== Chat Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatOptions.java[BedrockCohereChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as temperature, topK, topP, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockCohereChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        BedrockCohereChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatOptions.java[BedrockCohereChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

=== Sample Controller (Auto-configuration)

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Cohere Chat client:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.temperature=0.8
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockCohereChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatClient.java[BedrockCohereChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Cohere service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#_dependency_management[Dependency Management] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatClient.java[BedrockCohereChatClient] and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
CohereChatBedrockApi api = new CohereChatBedrockApi(CohereChatModel.COHERE_COMMAND_V14.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(), Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());

BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient = new BedrockCohereChatClient(api,
	    BedrockCohereChatOptions.builder()
					.withTemperature(0.6f)
					.withTopK(10)
					.withTopP(0.5f)
					.withMaxTokens(678)
					.build()

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

== Low-level CohereChatBedrockApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java[CohereChatBedrockApi] provides is lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-cohere-command.html[Cohere Command models].

Following class diagram illustrates the CohereChatBedrockApi interface and building blocks:

image::bedrock/bedrock-cohere-chat-low-level-api.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

The CohereChatBedrockApi supports the `cohere.command-light-text-v14` and `cohere.command-text-v14` models for both synchronous (e.g. `chatCompletion()`) and streaming (e.g. `chatCompletionStream()`) requests.

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
CohereChatBedrockApi cohereChatApi = new CohereChatBedrockApi(
	CohereChatModel.COHERE_COMMAND_V14.id(),
	Region.US_EAST_1.id());

var request = CohereChatRequest
	.builder("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? What it the national anthem?")
	.withStream(false)
	.withTemperature(0.5f)
	.withTopP(0.8f)
	.withTopK(15)
	.withMaxTokens(100)
	.withStopSequences(List.of("END"))
	.withReturnLikelihoods(CohereChatRequest.ReturnLikelihoods.ALL)
	.withNumGenerations(3)
	.withLogitBias(null)
	.withTruncate(Truncate.NONE)
	.build();

CohereChatResponse response = cohereChatApi.chatCompletion(request);

var request = CohereChatRequest
	.builder("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? What it the national anthem?")
	.withStream(true)
	.withTemperature(0.5f)
	.withTopP(0.8f)
	.withTopK(15)
	.withMaxTokens(100)
	.withStopSequences(List.of("END"))
	.withReturnLikelihoods(CohereChatRequest.ReturnLikelihoods.ALL)
	.withNumGenerations(3)
	.withLogitBias(null)
	.withTruncate(Truncate.NONE)
	.build();

Flux<CohereChatResponse.Generation> responseStream = cohereChatApi.chatCompletionStream(request);
List<CohereChatResponse.Generation> responses = responseStream.collectList().block();
----

Commit message:

Add additional pointers to help setup dependencies in each ChatClient and EmbeddingClient docs

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc, after:

= Cohere Chat

Provides Bedrock Cohere Chat client.
Integrate generative AI capabilities into essential apps and workflows that improve business outcomes.

The https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/cohere-command-embed/[AWS Bedrock Cohere Model Page] and https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock User Guide] contains detailed information on how to use the AWS hosted model.

== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
  <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

=== Enable Cohere Chat Support

By default the Cohere model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_COHERE_CHAT_ENABLED=true
----

=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,3"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use. | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat client implementation for Cohere.

[cols="2,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Cohere  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.model                | The model id to use. See the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java#L326C14-L326C29[CohereChatModel] for the supported models.  | cohere.command-text-v14
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.temperature  | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0]  | 0.7
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.topP  | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling.  | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.topK  | Specify the number of token choices the model uses to generate the next token  | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.maxTokens  | Specify the maximum number of tokens to use in the generated response. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.stopSequences  | Configure up to four sequences that the model recognizes. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.returnLikelihoods  | The token likelihoods are returned with the response. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.numGenerations  | The maximum number of generations that the model should return. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.logitBias  | Prevents the model from generating unwanted tokens or incentivize the model to include desired tokens. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.truncate  |  Specifies how the API handles inputs longer than the maximum token length | AWS Bedrock default
|====

Look at the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/4ba9a3cd689b9fd3a3805f540debe398a079c6ef/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java#L326C14-L326C29[CohereChatModel] for other model IDs.
Supported values are: `cohere.command-light-text-v14` and `cohere.command-text-v14`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

=== Chat Options [[chat-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatOptions.java[BedrockCohereChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as temperature, topK, topP, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockCohereChatClient(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        BedrockCohereChatOptions.builder()
            .withTemperature(0.4)
        .build()
    ));
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatOptions.java[BedrockCohereChatOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptions.java[ChatOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/ChatOptionsBuilder.java[ChatOptionsBuilder#builder()].

=== Sample Controller (Auto-configuration)

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Cohere Chat client:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.options.temperature=0.8
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockCohereChatClient` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat client for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient) {
        this.chatClient = chatClient;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatClient.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatClient.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatClient.java[BedrockCohereChatClient] implements the `ChatClient` and `StreamingChatClient` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Cohere service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
    <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock:0.8.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereChatClient.java[BedrockCohereChatClient] and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
CohereChatBedrockApi api = new CohereChatBedrockApi(CohereChatModel.COHERE_COMMAND_V14.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(), Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());

BedrockCohereChatClient chatClient = new BedrockCohereChatClient(api,
	    BedrockCohereChatOptions.builder()
					.withTemperature(0.6f)
					.withTopK(10)
					.withTopP(0.5f)
					.withMaxTokens(678)
					.build()

ChatResponse response = chatClient.call(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));

// Or with streaming responses
Flux<ChatResponse> response = chatClient.stream(
    new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

== Low-level CohereChatBedrockApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereChatBedrockApi.java[CohereChatBedrockApi] provides is lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-cohere-command.html[Cohere Command models].

Following class diagram illustrates the CohereChatBedrockApi interface and building blocks:

image::bedrock/bedrock-cohere-chat-low-level-api.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

The CohereChatBedrockApi supports the `cohere.command-light-text-v14` and `cohere.command-text-v14` models for both synchronous (e.g. `chatCompletion()`) and streaming (e.g. `chatCompletionStream()`) requests.

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
CohereChatBedrockApi cohereChatApi = new CohereChatBedrockApi(
	CohereChatModel.COHERE_COMMAND_V14.id(),
	Region.US_EAST_1.id());

var request = CohereChatRequest
	.builder("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? What it the national anthem?")
	.withStream(false)
	.withTemperature(0.5f)
	.withTopP(0.8f)
	.withTopK(15)
	.withMaxTokens(100)
	.withStopSequences(List.of("END"))
	.withReturnLikelihoods(CohereChatRequest.ReturnLikelihoods.ALL)
	.withNumGenerations(3)
	.withLogitBias(null)
	.withTruncate(Truncate.NONE)
	.build();

CohereChatResponse response = cohereChatApi.chatCompletion(request);

var request = CohereChatRequest
	.builder("What is the capital of Bulgaria and what is the size? What it the national anthem?")
	.withStream(true)
	.withTemperature(0.5f)
	.withTopP(0.8f)
	.withTopK(15)
	.withMaxTokens(100)
	.withStopSequences(List.of("END"))
	.withReturnLikelihoods(CohereChatRequest.ReturnLikelihoods.ALL)
	.withNumGenerations(3)
	.withLogitBias(null)
	.withTruncate(Truncate.NONE)
	.build();

Flux<CohereChatResponse.Generation> responseStream = cohereChatApi.chatCompletionStream(request);
List<CohereChatResponse.Generation> responses = responseStream.collectList().block();
----
