spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/image/openai-image.adoc, before:

= OpenAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports ChatGPT's DALL-E, the Image generation model from OpenAI.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API key with OpenAI to access ChatGPT models.
Create an account at https://platform.openai.com/signup[OpenAI signup page] and generate the token on the https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from openai.com.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenAI Image Generation Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.openai.com
| spring.ai.openai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.image.enabled | Enable OpenAI image client.  | true
| spring.ai.openai.image.base-url              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.openai.image.api-key               | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.n            | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For dall-e-3, only n=1 is supported.  | -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.model        | The model to use for image generation.  | OpenAiImageApi.DEFAULT_IMAGE_MODEL
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.quality      | The quality of the image that will be generated. HD creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.response_format | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of URL or b64_json. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size`       | The size of the generated images. Must be one of 256x256, 512x512, or 1024x1024 for dall-e-2. Must be one of 1024x1024, 1792x1024, or 1024x1792 for dall-e-3 models. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_width` | The width of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2.  | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_height`| The height of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.style`      | The style of the generated images. Must be one of vivid or natural. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.user`       | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

=== Image Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OpenAiImageClient(OpenAiImageApi openAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(OpenAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the OpenAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = openaiImageClient.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        OpenAiImageOptions.builder()
                .withQuality("hd")
                .withN(4)
                .withHeight(1024)
                .withWidth(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].

Commit message:

Refactor and centralize Retry logic:
 - Establish a new "spring-ai-retry" project, implementing a default HTTP error handler,
   RetryTemplate, and handling both Transient and Non-Transient Exceptions.
 - Streamline existing clients (e.g., OpenAI and MistralAI) to utilize "spring-ai-retry."
 - Integrate retry auto-configuration with customizable properties, extending it to OpenAI and MistralAI Auto-Configs.
 - Allow configuration of RetryTemplate and ResponseErrorHandler for various clients, including OpenAIChatClient,
   OpenAiEmbeddingClient, OpenAiAudioTranscriptionCline, OpenAiImageClient, MistralAiChatClient, and MistralAiEmbeddingClient.
 - Add tests for default RestTemplate and ResponseErrorHandler configurations in OpenAI and MistralAI.
 - Introduce new retry auto-config properties: "onClientErrors" and "onHttpCodes".
 - Implement tests for retry auto-config properties.
 - Generate missing license headers.

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/clients/image/openai-image.adoc, after:

= OpenAI Image Generation


Spring AI supports ChatGPT's DALL-E, the Image generation model from OpenAI.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API key with OpenAI to access ChatGPT models.
Create an account at https://platform.openai.com/signup[OpenAI signup page] and generate the token on the https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.openai.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from openai.com.
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenAI Image Generation Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Image Generation Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the OpenAI Chat client.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If true, do not throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for 4xx client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP Error Code to include for retry | empty
|====


The prefix `spring.ai.openai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.openai.com
| spring.ai.openai.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.openai.image` is the property prefix that lets you configure the `ImageClient` implementation for OpenAI.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.openai.image.enabled | Enable OpenAI image client.  | true
| spring.ai.openai.image.base-url              | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.base-url to provide chat specific url |  -
| spring.ai.openai.image.api-key               | Optional overrides the spring.ai.openai.api-key to provide chat specific api-key |  -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.n            | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For dall-e-3, only n=1 is supported.  | -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.model        | The model to use for image generation.  | OpenAiImageApi.DEFAULT_IMAGE_MODEL
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.quality      | The quality of the image that will be generated. HD creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| spring.ai.openai.image.options.response_format | The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of URL or b64_json. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size`       | The size of the generated images. Must be one of 256x256, 512x512, or 1024x1024 for dall-e-2. Must be one of 1024x1024, 1792x1024, or 1024x1792 for dall-e-3 models. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_width` | The width of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2.  | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.size_height`| The height of the generated images. Must be one of 256, 512, or 1024 for dall-e-2. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.style`      | The style of the generated images. Must be one of vivid or natural. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This parameter is only supported for dall-e-3. | -
| `spring.ai.openai.image.options.user`       | A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse. | -
|====

=== Image Options [[image-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the quality, the size, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OpenAiImageClient(OpenAiImageApi openAiImageApi)` constructor and the `withDefaultOptions(OpenAiImageOptions defaultOptions)` method.  Alternatively, use the `spring.ai.openai.image.options.*` properties described previously.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `ImagePrompt` call.
For example to override the OpenAI specific options such as quality and the number of images to create, use the following code example:

[source,java]
----
ImageResponse response = openaiImageClient.call(
        new ImagePrompt("A light cream colored mini golden doodle",
        OpenAiImageOptions.builder()
                .withQuality("hd")
                .withN(4)
                .withHeight(1024)
                .withWidth(1024).build())

);
----

TIP: In addition to the model specific https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-openai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/openai/OpenAiImageOptions.java[OpenAiImageOptions] you can use a portable https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptions.java[ImageOptions] instance, created with the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/image/ImageOptionsBuilder.java[ImageOptionsBuilder#builder()].
