spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/azure-cosmos-db.adoc, before:

= Azure Cosmos DB

This section walks you through setting up `CosmosDBVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

== What is Azure Cosmos DB?

link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cosmos-db/[Azure Cosmos DB] is Microsoft's globally distributed cloud-native database service designed for mission-critical applications.
It offers high availability, low latency, and the ability to scale horizontally to meet modern application demands.
It was built from the ground up with global distribution, fine-grained multi-tenancy, and horizontal scalability at its core.
It is a foundational service in Azure, used by most of Microsoft’s mission critical applications at global scale, including Teams, Skype, Xbox Live, Office 365, Bing, Azure Active Directory, Azure Portal, Microsoft Store, and many others.
It is also used by thousands of external customers including OpenAI for ChatGPT and other mission-critical AI applications that require elastic scale, turnkey global distribution, and low latency and high availability across the planet.

== What is DiskANN?

DiskANN (Disk-based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search) is an innovative technology used in Azure Cosmos DB to enhance the performance of vector searches.
It enables efficient and scalable similarity searches across high-dimensional data by indexing embeddings stored in Cosmos DB.

DiskANN provides the following benefits:

* **Efficiency**: By utilizing disk-based structures, DiskANN significantly reduces the time required to find nearest neighbors compared to traditional methods.
* **Scalability**: It can handle large datasets that exceed memory capacity, making it suitable for various applications, including machine learning and AI-driven solutions.
* **Low Latency**: DiskANN minimizes latency during search operations, ensuring that applications can retrieve results quickly even with substantial data volumes.

In the context of Spring AI for Azure Cosmos DB, vector searches will create and leverage DiskANN indexes to ensure optimal performance for similarity queries.

== Setting up Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store with Auto Configuration

The following code demonstrates how to set up the `CosmosDBVectorStore` with auto-configuration:

```java
package com.example.demo;

import io.micrometer.observation.ObservationRegistry;
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
import org.springframework.ai.document.Document;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.SearchRequest;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.VectorStore;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.EnableAutoConfiguration;
import org.springframework.boot.CommandLineRunner;
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Lazy;

import java.util.List;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.UUID;

import static org.assertj.core.api.Assertions.assertThat;

@SpringBootApplication
@EnableAutoConfiguration
public class DemoApplication implements CommandLineRunner {

    private static final Logger log = LoggerFactory.getLogger(DemoApplication.class);

    @Lazy
    @Autowired
    private VectorStore vectorStore;

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(DemoApplication.class, args);
    }

    @Override
    public void run(String... args) throws Exception {
        Document document1 = new Document(UUID.randomUUID().toString(), "Sample content1", Map.of("key1", "value1"));
        Document document2 = new Document(UUID.randomUUID().toString(), "Sample content2", Map.of("key2", "value2"));
		this.vectorStore.add(List.of(document1, document2));
        List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Sample content").topK(1).build());

        log.info("Search results: {}", results);

        // Remove the documents from the vector store
		this.vectorStore.delete(List.of(document1.getId(), document2.getId()));
    }

    @Bean
    public ObservationRegistry observationRegistry() {
        return ObservationRegistry.create();
    }
}
```


== Auto Configuration

Add the following dependency to your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-azure-cosmos-db</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Configuration Properties

The following configuration properties are available for the Cosmos DB vector store:

[stripes=even]
|===
| Property | Description

| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.databaseName | The name of the Cosmos DB database to use.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.containerName | The name of the Cosmos DB container to use.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.partitionKeyPath | The path for the partition key.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.metadataFields | Comma-separated list of metadata fields.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.vectorStoreThroughput | The throughput for the vector store.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.vectorDimensions | The number of dimensions for the vectors.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.endpoint | The endpoint for the Cosmos DB.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.key | The key for the Cosmos DB.
|===


== Complex Searches with Filters

You can perform more complex searches using filters in the Cosmos DB vector store.
Below is a sample demonstrating how to use filters in your search queries.

[source,java]
----
Map<String, Object> metadata1 = new HashMap<>();
metadata1.put("country", "UK");
metadata1.put("year", 2021);
metadata1.put("city", "London");

Map<String, Object> metadata2 = new HashMap<>();
metadata2.put("country", "NL");
metadata2.put("year", 2022);
metadata2.put("city", "Amsterdam");

Document document1 = new Document("1", "A document about the UK", this.metadata1);
Document document2 = new Document("2", "A document about the Netherlands", this.metadata2);

vectorStore.add(List.of(document1, document2));

FilterExpressionBuilder builder = new FilterExpressionBuilder();
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("The World")
    .topK(10)
    .filterExpression((this.builder.in("country", "UK", "NL")).build()).build());
----

== Setting up Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store without Auto Configuration

The following code demonstrates how to set up the `CosmosDBVectorStore` without relying on auto-configuration:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(ObservationRegistry observationRegistry) {
    // Create the Cosmos DB client
    CosmosAsyncClient cosmosClient = new CosmosClientBuilder()
            .endpoint(System.getenv("COSMOSDB_AI_ENDPOINT"))
            .key(System.getenv("COSMOSDB_AI_KEY"))
            .userAgentSuffix("SpringAI-CDBNoSQL-VectorStore")
            .gatewayMode()
            .buildAsyncClient();

    // Create and configure the vector store
    return CosmosDBVectorStore.builder(cosmosClient, embeddingModel)
            .databaseName("test-database")
            .containerName("test-container")
            // Configure metadata fields for filtering
            .metadataFields(List.of("country", "year", "city"))
            // Set the partition key path (optional)
            .partitionKeyPath("/id")
            // Configure performance settings
            .vectorStoreThroughput(1000)
            .vectorDimensions(1536)  // Match your embedding model's dimensions
            // Add custom batching strategy (optional)
            .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy())
            // Add observation registry for metrics
            .observationRegistry(observationRegistry)
            .build();
}

@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new TransformersEmbeddingModel();
}
----

This configuration shows all the available builder options:

* `databaseName`: The name of your Cosmos DB database
* `containerName`: The name of your container within the database
* `partitionKeyPath`: The path for the partition key (e.g., "/id")
* `metadataFields`: List of metadata fields that will be used for filtering
* `vectorStoreThroughput`: The throughput (RU/s) for the vector store container
* `vectorDimensions`: The number of dimensions for your vectors (should match your embedding model)
* `batchingStrategy`: Strategy for batching document operations (optional)

== Manual Dependency Setup

Add the following dependency in your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-cosmos-db-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Azure Cosmos DB client (`CosmosClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
CosmosDBVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(CosmosDBVectorStore.class);
Optional<CosmosClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    CosmosClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Azure Cosmos DB-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Azure Cosmos DB-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/azure-cosmos-db.adoc, after:

= Azure Cosmos DB

This section walks you through setting up `CosmosDBVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

== What is Azure Cosmos DB?

link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cosmos-db/[Azure Cosmos DB] is Microsoft's globally distributed cloud-native database service designed for mission-critical applications.
It offers high availability, low latency, and the ability to scale horizontally to meet modern application demands.
It was built from the ground up with global distribution, fine-grained multi-tenancy, and horizontal scalability at its core.
It is a foundational service in Azure, used by most of Microsoft’s mission critical applications at global scale, including Teams, Skype, Xbox Live, Office 365, Bing, Azure Active Directory, Azure Portal, Microsoft Store, and many others.
It is also used by thousands of external customers including OpenAI for ChatGPT and other mission-critical AI applications that require elastic scale, turnkey global distribution, and low latency and high availability across the planet.

== What is DiskANN?

DiskANN (Disk-based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search) is an innovative technology used in Azure Cosmos DB to enhance the performance of vector searches.
It enables efficient and scalable similarity searches across high-dimensional data by indexing embeddings stored in Cosmos DB.

DiskANN provides the following benefits:

* **Efficiency**: By utilizing disk-based structures, DiskANN significantly reduces the time required to find nearest neighbors compared to traditional methods.
* **Scalability**: It can handle large datasets that exceed memory capacity, making it suitable for various applications, including machine learning and AI-driven solutions.
* **Low Latency**: DiskANN minimizes latency during search operations, ensuring that applications can retrieve results quickly even with substantial data volumes.

In the context of Spring AI for Azure Cosmos DB, vector searches will create and leverage DiskANN indexes to ensure optimal performance for similarity queries.

== Setting up Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store with Auto Configuration

The following code demonstrates how to set up the `CosmosDBVectorStore` with auto-configuration:

```java
package com.example.demo;

import io.micrometer.observation.ObservationRegistry;
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
import org.springframework.ai.document.Document;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.SearchRequest;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.VectorStore;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.EnableAutoConfiguration;
import org.springframework.boot.CommandLineRunner;
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Lazy;

import java.util.List;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.UUID;

import static org.assertj.core.api.Assertions.assertThat;

@SpringBootApplication
@EnableAutoConfiguration
public class DemoApplication implements CommandLineRunner {

    private static final Logger log = LoggerFactory.getLogger(DemoApplication.class);

    @Lazy
    @Autowired
    private VectorStore vectorStore;

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(DemoApplication.class, args);
    }

    @Override
    public void run(String... args) throws Exception {
        Document document1 = new Document(UUID.randomUUID().toString(), "Sample content1", Map.of("key1", "value1"));
        Document document2 = new Document(UUID.randomUUID().toString(), "Sample content2", Map.of("key2", "value2"));
		this.vectorStore.add(List.of(document1, document2));
        List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Sample content").topK(1).build());

        log.info("Search results: {}", results);

        // Remove the documents from the vector store
		this.vectorStore.delete(List.of(document1.getId(), document2.getId()));
    }

    @Bean
    public ObservationRegistry observationRegistry() {
        return ObservationRegistry.create();
    }
}
```


== Auto Configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Add the following dependency to your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-azure-cosmos-db</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Configuration Properties

The following configuration properties are available for the Cosmos DB vector store:

[stripes=even]
|===
| Property | Description

| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.databaseName | The name of the Cosmos DB database to use.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.containerName | The name of the Cosmos DB container to use.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.partitionKeyPath | The path for the partition key.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.metadataFields | Comma-separated list of metadata fields.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.vectorStoreThroughput | The throughput for the vector store.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.vectorDimensions | The number of dimensions for the vectors.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.endpoint | The endpoint for the Cosmos DB.
| spring.ai.vectorstore.cosmosdb.key | The key for the Cosmos DB.
|===


== Complex Searches with Filters

You can perform more complex searches using filters in the Cosmos DB vector store.
Below is a sample demonstrating how to use filters in your search queries.

[source,java]
----
Map<String, Object> metadata1 = new HashMap<>();
metadata1.put("country", "UK");
metadata1.put("year", 2021);
metadata1.put("city", "London");

Map<String, Object> metadata2 = new HashMap<>();
metadata2.put("country", "NL");
metadata2.put("year", 2022);
metadata2.put("city", "Amsterdam");

Document document1 = new Document("1", "A document about the UK", this.metadata1);
Document document2 = new Document("2", "A document about the Netherlands", this.metadata2);

vectorStore.add(List.of(document1, document2));

FilterExpressionBuilder builder = new FilterExpressionBuilder();
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("The World")
    .topK(10)
    .filterExpression((this.builder.in("country", "UK", "NL")).build()).build());
----

== Setting up Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store without Auto Configuration

The following code demonstrates how to set up the `CosmosDBVectorStore` without relying on auto-configuration:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(ObservationRegistry observationRegistry) {
    // Create the Cosmos DB client
    CosmosAsyncClient cosmosClient = new CosmosClientBuilder()
            .endpoint(System.getenv("COSMOSDB_AI_ENDPOINT"))
            .key(System.getenv("COSMOSDB_AI_KEY"))
            .userAgentSuffix("SpringAI-CDBNoSQL-VectorStore")
            .gatewayMode()
            .buildAsyncClient();

    // Create and configure the vector store
    return CosmosDBVectorStore.builder(cosmosClient, embeddingModel)
            .databaseName("test-database")
            .containerName("test-container")
            // Configure metadata fields for filtering
            .metadataFields(List.of("country", "year", "city"))
            // Set the partition key path (optional)
            .partitionKeyPath("/id")
            // Configure performance settings
            .vectorStoreThroughput(1000)
            .vectorDimensions(1536)  // Match your embedding model's dimensions
            // Add custom batching strategy (optional)
            .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy())
            // Add observation registry for metrics
            .observationRegistry(observationRegistry)
            .build();
}

@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new TransformersEmbeddingModel();
}
----

This configuration shows all the available builder options:

* `databaseName`: The name of your Cosmos DB database
* `containerName`: The name of your container within the database
* `partitionKeyPath`: The path for the partition key (e.g., "/id")
* `metadataFields`: List of metadata fields that will be used for filtering
* `vectorStoreThroughput`: The throughput (RU/s) for the vector store container
* `vectorDimensions`: The number of dimensions for your vectors (should match your embedding model)
* `batchingStrategy`: Strategy for batching document operations (optional)

== Manual Dependency Setup

Add the following dependency in your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-azure-cosmos-db-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Azure Cosmos DB Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Azure Cosmos DB client (`CosmosClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
CosmosDBVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(CosmosDBVectorStore.class);
Optional<CosmosClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    CosmosClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Azure Cosmos DB-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Azure Cosmos DB-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.
