spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/couchbase.adoc, before:

= Couchbase

This section will walk you through setting up the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches using Couchbase.

link:https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/vector-search/vector-search.html[Couchbase] is a distributed, JSON document database, with all the desired capabilities of a relational DBMS. Among other features, it allows users to query information using vector-based storage and retrieval.

== Prerequisites


A running Couchbase instance. The following options are available:
Couchbase
* link:https://hub.docker.com/_/couchbase/[Docker]
* link:https://cloud.couchbase.com/[Capella - Couchbase as a Service]
* link:https://www.couchbase.com/downloads/?family=couchbase-server[Install Couchbase locally]
* link:https://www.couchbase.com/downloads/?family=open-source-kubernetes[Couchbase Kubernetes Operator]

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Couchbase Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-couchbase</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-couchbase-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----
NOTE: Couchbase Vector search is only available in starting version 7.6 and Java SDK version 3.6.0"


TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

The vector store implementation can initialize the configured bucket, scope, collection and search index for you, with default options, but you must opt-in by specifying the `initializeSchema` boolean in the appropriate constructor.

NOTE: This is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.

Please have a look at the list of <<couchbasevector-properties,configuration parameters>> for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.


Now you can auto-wire the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application.

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Qdrant
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.query("Spring").withTopK(5));
----

[[couchbasevector-properties]]
=== Configuration Properties

To connect to Couchbase and use the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.properties`,

[application,properties]
----
spring.ai.openai.api-key=<key>
spring.couchbase.connection-string=<conn_string>
spring.couchbase.username=<username>
spring.couchbase.password=<password>
----

environment variables,

[source,bash]
----
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_CONNECTION_STRINGS=<couchbase connection string like couchbase://localhost>
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_USERNAME=<couchbase username>
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_PASSWORD=<couchbase password>
# API key if needed, e.g. OpenAI
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<api-key>
----

or can be a mix of those.
For example, if you want to store your password as an environment variable but keep the rest in the plain `application.yml` file.

NOTE: If you choose to create a shell script for ease in future work, be sure to run it prior to starting your application by "sourcing" the file, i.e. `source <your_script_name>.sh`.

Spring Boot's auto-configuration feature for the Couchbase Cluster will create a bean instance that will be used by the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`.

The Spring Boot properties starting with `spring.couchbase.*` are used to configure the Couchbase cluster instance:

|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

| `spring.couchbase.connection-string` | A couchbase connection string | `couchbase://localhost`
| `spring.couchbase.password` | Password for authentication with Couchbase. | -
| `spring.couchbase.username` | Username for authentication with Couchbase.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.minEndpoints` | Minimum number of sockets per node.| 1
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.maxEndpoints` | Maximum number of sockets per node.| 12
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.idleHttpConnectionTimeout` | Length of time an HTTP connection may remain idle before it is closed and removed from the pool.| 1s
| `spring.couchbase.env.ssl.enabled` | Whether to enable SSL support. Enabled automatically if a "bundle" is provided unless specified otherwise.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.ssl.bundle` | SSL bundle name.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.connect` | Bucket connect timeout.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.disconnect` | Bucket disconnect timeout.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value.| 2500ms
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value with a durability level.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value-durable` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value with a durability level.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.query` | SQL++ query operations timeout.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.view` | Regular and geospatial view operations timeout.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.search` | Timeout for the search service.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.analytics` | Timeout for the analytics service.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.management` | Timeout for the management operations.| 75s
|===

Properties starting with the `spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.*` prefix are used to configure `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`.

|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.index-name` | The name of the index to store the vectors. | spring-ai-document-index
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.bucket-name` | The name of the Couchbase Bucket, parent of the scope. | default
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.scope-name` |The name of the Couchbase scope, parent of the collection. Search queries will be executed in the scope context.| _default_
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.collection-name` | The name of the Couchbase collection to store the Documents. | _default_
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.dimensions` | The number of dimensions in the vector. | 1536
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.similarity` | The similarity function to use. | `dot_product`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.optimization` | The similarity function to use. | `recall`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.initialize-schema`| whether to initialize the required schema  | `false`
|===

The following similarity functions are available:

* l2_norm
* dot_product

The following index optimizations are available:

* recall
* latency

More details about each in the https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/search/child-field-options-reference.html[Couchbase Documentation] on vector searches.

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Couchbase store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.defaults()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'"));
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.defaults()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()));
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Couchbase SQL++ filters.


== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the Couchbase vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-couchbase-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-couchbase-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-couchbase-store'
}
----

Create a Couchbase `Cluster` bean.
Read the link:https://docs.couchbase.com/java-sdk/current/hello-world/start-using-sdk.html[Couchbase Documentation] for more in-depth information about the configuration of a custom Cluster instance.

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public Cluster cluster() {
    return Cluster.connect("couchbase://localhost", "username", "password");
}

----

and then create the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore couchbaseSearchVectorStore(Cluster cluster,
                                              EmbeddingModel embeddingModel,
                                              Boolean initializeSchema) {
    return CouchbaseSearchVectorStore
            .builder(cluster, embeddingModel)
            .bucketName("test")
            .scopeName("test")
            .collectionName("test")
            .initializeSchema(initializeSchema)
            .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation.
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(OpenAiApi.builder().apiKey(this.openaiKey).build());
}
----

== Limitations

NOTE: It is mandatory to have the following Couchbase services activated: Data, Query, Index, Search. While Data and Search could be enough, Query and Index are necessary to support the complete metadata filtering mechanism.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/couchbase.adoc, after:

= Couchbase

This section will walk you through setting up the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches using Couchbase.

link:https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/vector-search/vector-search.html[Couchbase] is a distributed, JSON document database, with all the desired capabilities of a relational DBMS. Among other features, it allows users to query information using vector-based storage and retrieval.

== Prerequisites


A running Couchbase instance. The following options are available:
Couchbase
* link:https://hub.docker.com/_/couchbase/[Docker]
* link:https://cloud.couchbase.com/[Capella - Couchbase as a Service]
* link:https://www.couchbase.com/downloads/?family=couchbase-server[Install Couchbase locally]
* link:https://www.couchbase.com/downloads/?family=open-source-kubernetes[Couchbase Kubernetes Operator]

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Couchbase Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-couchbase</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-couchbase-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----
NOTE: Couchbase Vector search is only available in starting version 7.6 and Java SDK version 3.6.0"


TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

The vector store implementation can initialize the configured bucket, scope, collection and search index for you, with default options, but you must opt-in by specifying the `initializeSchema` boolean in the appropriate constructor.

NOTE: This is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.

Please have a look at the list of <<couchbasevector-properties,configuration parameters>> for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.


Now you can auto-wire the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application.

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Qdrant
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.query("Spring").withTopK(5));
----

[[couchbasevector-properties]]
=== Configuration Properties

To connect to Couchbase and use the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.properties`,

[application,properties]
----
spring.ai.openai.api-key=<key>
spring.couchbase.connection-string=<conn_string>
spring.couchbase.username=<username>
spring.couchbase.password=<password>
----

environment variables,

[source,bash]
----
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_CONNECTION_STRINGS=<couchbase connection string like couchbase://localhost>
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_USERNAME=<couchbase username>
export SPRING_COUCHBASE_PASSWORD=<couchbase password>
# API key if needed, e.g. OpenAI
export SPRING_AI_OPENAI_API_KEY=<api-key>
----

or can be a mix of those.
For example, if you want to store your password as an environment variable but keep the rest in the plain `application.yml` file.

NOTE: If you choose to create a shell script for ease in future work, be sure to run it prior to starting your application by "sourcing" the file, i.e. `source <your_script_name>.sh`.

Spring Boot's auto-configuration feature for the Couchbase Cluster will create a bean instance that will be used by the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`.

The Spring Boot properties starting with `spring.couchbase.*` are used to configure the Couchbase cluster instance:

|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

| `spring.couchbase.connection-string` | A couchbase connection string | `couchbase://localhost`
| `spring.couchbase.password` | Password for authentication with Couchbase. | -
| `spring.couchbase.username` | Username for authentication with Couchbase.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.minEndpoints` | Minimum number of sockets per node.| 1
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.maxEndpoints` | Maximum number of sockets per node.| 12
| `spring.couchbase.env.io.idleHttpConnectionTimeout` | Length of time an HTTP connection may remain idle before it is closed and removed from the pool.| 1s
| `spring.couchbase.env.ssl.enabled` | Whether to enable SSL support. Enabled automatically if a "bundle" is provided unless specified otherwise.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.ssl.bundle` | SSL bundle name.| -
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.connect` | Bucket connect timeout.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.disconnect` | Bucket disconnect timeout.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value.| 2500ms
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value with a durability level.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.key-value-durable` | Timeout for operations on a specific key-value with a durability level.| 10s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.query` | SQL++ query operations timeout.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.view` | Regular and geospatial view operations timeout.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.search` | Timeout for the search service.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.analytics` | Timeout for the analytics service.| 75s
| `spring.couchbase.env.timeouts.management` | Timeout for the management operations.| 75s
|===

Properties starting with the `spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.*` prefix are used to configure `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore`.

|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.index-name` | The name of the index to store the vectors. | spring-ai-document-index
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.bucket-name` | The name of the Couchbase Bucket, parent of the scope. | default
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.scope-name` |The name of the Couchbase scope, parent of the collection. Search queries will be executed in the scope context.| _default_
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.collection-name` | The name of the Couchbase collection to store the Documents. | _default_
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.dimensions` | The number of dimensions in the vector. | 1536
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.similarity` | The similarity function to use. | `dot_product`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.optimization` | The similarity function to use. | `recall`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.couchbase.initialize-schema`| whether to initialize the required schema  | `false`
|===

The following similarity functions are available:

* l2_norm
* dot_product

The following index optimizations are available:

* recall
* latency

More details about each in the https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/search/child-field-options-reference.html[Couchbase Documentation] on vector searches.

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Couchbase store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.defaults()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'"));
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.defaults()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()));
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Couchbase SQL++ filters.


== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the Couchbase vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-couchbase-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-couchbase-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-couchbase-store'
}
----

Create a Couchbase `Cluster` bean.
Read the link:https://docs.couchbase.com/java-sdk/current/hello-world/start-using-sdk.html[Couchbase Documentation] for more in-depth information about the configuration of a custom Cluster instance.

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public Cluster cluster() {
    return Cluster.connect("couchbase://localhost", "username", "password");
}

----

and then create the `CouchbaseSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore couchbaseSearchVectorStore(Cluster cluster,
                                              EmbeddingModel embeddingModel,
                                              Boolean initializeSchema) {
    return CouchbaseSearchVectorStore
            .builder(cluster, embeddingModel)
            .bucketName("test")
            .scopeName("test")
            .collectionName("test")
            .initializeSchema(initializeSchema)
            .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation.
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(OpenAiApi.builder().apiKey(this.openaiKey).build());
}
----

== Limitations

NOTE: It is mandatory to have the following Couchbase services activated: Data, Query, Index, Search. While Data and Search could be enough, Query and Index are necessary to support the complete metadata filtering mechanism.
