spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/hana.adoc, before:

= SAP HANA Cloud

== Prerequisites

* You need a SAP HANA Cloud vector engine account - Refer xref:api/vectordbs/hanadb-provision-a-trial-account.adoc[SAP HANA Cloud vector engine - provision a trial account] guide to create a trial account.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the vector store.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the SAP Hana Vector Sore.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_hanacloudvectorstore_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

== HanaCloudVectorStore properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the SAP Hana vector store.
It uses `spring.datasource.*` properties to configure the Hana datasource and the `spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.*` properties to configure the Hana vector store.

|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.datasource.driver-class-name` | Driver class name | com.sap.db.jdbc.Driver
|`spring.datasource.url` | Hana Datasource URL | -
|`spring.datasource.username` | Hana datasource username | -
|`spring.datasource.password` | Hana datasource password | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.top-k`| TODO | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.table-name`| TODO | -

|===


== Build a Sample RAG application

Shows how to setup a project that uses SAP Hana Cloud as the vector DB and leverage OpenAI to implement RAG pattern

* Create a table `CRICKET_WORLD_CUP` in SAP Hana DB:
[sql]
----
CREATE TABLE CRICKET_WORLD_CUP (
    _ID VARCHAR2(255) PRIMARY KEY,
    CONTENT CLOB,
    EMBEDDING REAL_VECTOR(1536)
)
----

* Add the following dependencies in your `pom.xml`

You may set the property `spring-ai-version` as `<spring-ai-version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</spring-ai-version>`:
[source,xml]
----

<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-ai-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${spring-ai-version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-pdf-document-reader</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.projectlombok</groupId>
    <artifactId>lombok</artifactId>
    <version>1.18.30</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

* Add the following properties in `application.properties` file:

[yml]
----
spring.ai.openai.api-key=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.model=text-embedding-ada-002

spring.datasource.driver-class-name=com.sap.db.jdbc.Driver
spring.datasource.url=${HANA_DATASOURCE_URL}
spring.datasource.username=${HANA_DATASOURCE_USERNAME}
spring.datasource.password=${HANA_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD}

spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.tableName=CRICKET_WORLD_CUP
spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.topK=3
----

=== Create an `Entity` class named `CricketWorldCup` that extends from `HanaVectorEntity`:
[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import jakarta.persistence.Column;
import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.Table;
import lombok.Data;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;
import lombok.extern.jackson.Jacksonized;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaVectorEntity;

@Entity
@Table(name = "CRICKET_WORLD_CUP")
@Data
@Jacksonized
@NoArgsConstructor
public class CricketWorldCup extends HanaVectorEntity {
    @Column(name = "content")
    private String content;
}

----

* Create a `Repository` named `CricketWorldCupRepository` that implements `HanaVectorRepository` interface:

[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import jakarta.persistence.EntityManager;
import jakarta.persistence.PersistenceContext;
import jakarta.transaction.Transactional;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaVectorRepository;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;

import java.util.List;

@Repository
public class CricketWorldCupRepository implements HanaVectorRepository<CricketWorldCup> {
    @PersistenceContext
    private EntityManager entityManager;

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void save(String tableName, String id, String embedding, String content) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                INSERT INTO %s (_ID, EMBEDDING, CONTENT)
                VALUES(:_id, TO_REAL_VECTOR(:embedding), :content)
                """, tableName);

        entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql)
                .setParameter("_id", id)
                .setParameter("embedding", embedding)
                .setParameter("content", content)
                .executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public int deleteEmbeddingsById(String tableName, List<String> idList) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                DELETE FROM %s WHERE _ID IN (:ids)
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql)
                .setParameter("ids", idList)
                .executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public int deleteAllEmbeddings(String tableName) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                DELETE FROM %s
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql).executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    public List<CricketWorldCup> cosineSimilaritySearch(String tableName, int topK, String queryEmbedding) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                SELECT TOP :topK * FROM %s
                ORDER BY COSINE_SIMILARITY(EMBEDDING, TO_REAL_VECTOR(:queryEmbedding)) DESC
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql, CricketWorldCup.class)
                .setParameter("topK", topK)
                .setParameter("queryEmbedding", queryEmbedding)
                .getResultList();
    }
}
----

* Now, create a REST Controller class `CricketWorldCupHanaController`, and autowire `ChatModel` and `VectorStore` as dependencies
In this controller class, create the following REST endpoints:

    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/purge-embeddings` - to purge all the embeddings from the Vector Store
    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/upload` - to upload the Cricket_World_Cup.pdf so that its data gets stored in SAP Hana Cloud Vector DB as embeddings
    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup` - to implement `RAG` using link:https://help.sap.com/docs/hana-cloud-database/sap-hana-cloud-sap-hana-database-vector-engine-guide/vectors-vector-embeddings-and-metrics[Cosine_Similarity in SAP Hana DB]

[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import lombok.extern.slf4j.Slf4j;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.model.ChatModel;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.messages.UserMessage;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.prompt.Prompt;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.prompt.SystemPromptTemplate;
import org.springframework.ai.document.Document;
import org.springframework.ai.reader.pdf.PagePdfDocumentReader;
import org.springframework.ai.transformer.splitter.TokenTextSplitter;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaCloudVectorStore;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.VectorStore;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.core.io.Resource;
import org.springframework.http.ResponseEntity;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PostMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestParam;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import org.springframework.web.multipart.MultipartFile;

import java.io.IOException;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.function.Function;
import java.util.function.Supplier;
import java.util.stream.Collectors;

@RestController
@Slf4j
public class CricketWorldCupHanaController {
    private final VectorStore hanaCloudVectorStore;
    private final ChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public CricketWorldCupHanaController(ChatModel chatModel, VectorStore hanaCloudVectorStore) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
        this.hanaCloudVectorStore = hanaCloudVectorStore;
    }

    @PostMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/purge-embeddings")
    public ResponseEntity<String> purgeEmbeddings() {
        int deleteCount = ((HanaCloudVectorStore) this.hanaCloudVectorStore).purgeEmbeddings();
        log.info("{} embeddings purged from CRICKET_WORLD_CUP table in Hana DB", deleteCount);
        return ResponseEntity.ok().body(String.format("%d embeddings purged from CRICKET_WORLD_CUP table in Hana DB", deleteCount));
    }

    @PostMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/upload")
    public ResponseEntity<String> handleFileUpload(@RequestParam("pdf") MultipartFile file) throws IOException {
        Resource pdf = file.getResource();
        Supplier<List<Document>> reader = new PagePdfDocumentReader(pdf);
        Function<List<Document>, List<Document>> splitter = new TokenTextSplitter();
        List<Document> documents = splitter.apply(reader.get());
        log.info("{} documents created from pdf file: {}", documents.size(), pdf.getFilename());
        hanaCloudVectorStore.accept(documents);
        return ResponseEntity.ok().body(String.format("%d documents created from pdf file: %s",
                documents.size(), pdf.getFilename()));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup")
    public Map<String, String> hanaVectorStoreSearch(@RequestParam(value = "message") String message) {
        var documents = this.hanaCloudVectorStore.similaritySearch(message);
        var inlined = documents.stream().map(Document::getContent).collect(Collectors.joining(System.lineSeparator()));
        var similarDocsMessage = new SystemPromptTemplate("Based on the following: {documents}")
                .createMessage(Map.of("documents", inlined));

        var userMessage = new UserMessage(message);
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(List.of(similarDocsMessage, userMessage));
        String generation = chatModel.call(prompt).getResult().getOutput().getContent();
        log.info("Generation: {}", generation);
        return Map.of("generation", generation);
    }
}
----


* Use a `contextual` pdf file from wikipedia

Go to link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cricket_World_Cup[wikipedia] and link:https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Cricket_World_Cup&action=show-download-screen[download] `Cricket World Cup` page as a PDF file.

image::hanadb/wikipedia.png[width=800]

Upload this PDF file using the file-upload REST endpoint that we created in the previous step.

Commit message:

Add property to initialize schema for vector stores
* Default is fale
* Update docs

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/hana.adoc, after:

= SAP HANA Cloud

== Prerequisites

* You need a SAP HANA Cloud vector engine account - Refer xref:api/vectordbs/hanadb-provision-a-trial-account.adoc[SAP HANA Cloud vector engine - provision a trial account] guide to create a trial account.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the vector store.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the SAP Hana Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_hanacloudvectorstore_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

== HanaCloudVectorStore properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the SAP Hana vector store.
It uses `spring.datasource.*` properties to configure the Hana datasource and the `spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.*` properties to configure the Hana vector store.

|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.datasource.driver-class-name` | Driver class name | com.sap.db.jdbc.Driver
|`spring.datasource.url` | Hana Datasource URL | -
|`spring.datasource.username` | Hana datasource username | -
|`spring.datasource.password` | Hana datasource password | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.top-k`| TODO | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.table-name`| TODO | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.initialize-schema`| whether to initialize the required schema  | `false`

|===


== Build a Sample RAG application

Shows how to setup a project that uses SAP Hana Cloud as the vector DB and leverage OpenAI to implement RAG pattern

* Create a table `CRICKET_WORLD_CUP` in SAP Hana DB:
[sql]
----
CREATE TABLE CRICKET_WORLD_CUP (
    _ID VARCHAR2(255) PRIMARY KEY,
    CONTENT CLOB,
    EMBEDDING REAL_VECTOR(1536)
)
----

* Add the following dependencies in your `pom.xml`

You may set the property `spring-ai-version` as `<spring-ai-version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</spring-ai-version>`:
[source,xml]
----

<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-ai-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${spring-ai-version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-pdf-document-reader</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-hanadb-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.projectlombok</groupId>
    <artifactId>lombok</artifactId>
    <version>1.18.30</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

* Add the following properties in `application.properties` file:

[yml]
----
spring.ai.openai.api-key=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
spring.ai.openai.embedding.options.model=text-embedding-ada-002

spring.datasource.driver-class-name=com.sap.db.jdbc.Driver
spring.datasource.url=${HANA_DATASOURCE_URL}
spring.datasource.username=${HANA_DATASOURCE_USERNAME}
spring.datasource.password=${HANA_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD}

spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.tableName=CRICKET_WORLD_CUP
spring.ai.vectorstore.hanadb.topK=3
----

=== Create an `Entity` class named `CricketWorldCup` that extends from `HanaVectorEntity`:
[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import jakarta.persistence.Column;
import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.Table;
import lombok.Data;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;
import lombok.extern.jackson.Jacksonized;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaVectorEntity;

@Entity
@Table(name = "CRICKET_WORLD_CUP")
@Data
@Jacksonized
@NoArgsConstructor
public class CricketWorldCup extends HanaVectorEntity {
    @Column(name = "content")
    private String content;
}

----

* Create a `Repository` named `CricketWorldCupRepository` that implements `HanaVectorRepository` interface:

[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import jakarta.persistence.EntityManager;
import jakarta.persistence.PersistenceContext;
import jakarta.transaction.Transactional;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaVectorRepository;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;

import java.util.List;

@Repository
public class CricketWorldCupRepository implements HanaVectorRepository<CricketWorldCup> {
    @PersistenceContext
    private EntityManager entityManager;

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void save(String tableName, String id, String embedding, String content) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                INSERT INTO %s (_ID, EMBEDDING, CONTENT)
                VALUES(:_id, TO_REAL_VECTOR(:embedding), :content)
                """, tableName);

        entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql)
                .setParameter("_id", id)
                .setParameter("embedding", embedding)
                .setParameter("content", content)
                .executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public int deleteEmbeddingsById(String tableName, List<String> idList) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                DELETE FROM %s WHERE _ID IN (:ids)
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql)
                .setParameter("ids", idList)
                .executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public int deleteAllEmbeddings(String tableName) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                DELETE FROM %s
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql).executeUpdate();
    }

    @Override
    public List<CricketWorldCup> cosineSimilaritySearch(String tableName, int topK, String queryEmbedding) {
        String sql = String.format("""
                SELECT TOP :topK * FROM %s
                ORDER BY COSINE_SIMILARITY(EMBEDDING, TO_REAL_VECTOR(:queryEmbedding)) DESC
                """, tableName);

        return entityManager.createNativeQuery(sql, CricketWorldCup.class)
                .setParameter("topK", topK)
                .setParameter("queryEmbedding", queryEmbedding)
                .getResultList();
    }
}
----

* Now, create a REST Controller class `CricketWorldCupHanaController`, and autowire `ChatModel` and `VectorStore` as dependencies
In this controller class, create the following REST endpoints:

    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/purge-embeddings` - to purge all the embeddings from the Vector Store
    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/upload` - to upload the Cricket_World_Cup.pdf so that its data gets stored in SAP Hana Cloud Vector DB as embeddings
    - `/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup` - to implement `RAG` using link:https://help.sap.com/docs/hana-cloud-database/sap-hana-cloud-sap-hana-database-vector-engine-guide/vectors-vector-embeddings-and-metrics[Cosine_Similarity in SAP Hana DB]

[source,java]
----
package com.interviewpedia.spring.ai.hana;

import lombok.extern.slf4j.Slf4j;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.model.ChatModel;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.messages.UserMessage;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.prompt.Prompt;
import org.springframework.ai.chat.prompt.SystemPromptTemplate;
import org.springframework.ai.document.Document;
import org.springframework.ai.reader.pdf.PagePdfDocumentReader;
import org.springframework.ai.transformer.splitter.TokenTextSplitter;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.HanaCloudVectorStore;
import org.springframework.ai.vectorstore.VectorStore;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.core.io.Resource;
import org.springframework.http.ResponseEntity;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PostMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestParam;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import org.springframework.web.multipart.MultipartFile;

import java.io.IOException;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.function.Function;
import java.util.function.Supplier;
import java.util.stream.Collectors;

@RestController
@Slf4j
public class CricketWorldCupHanaController {
    private final VectorStore hanaCloudVectorStore;
    private final ChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public CricketWorldCupHanaController(ChatModel chatModel, VectorStore hanaCloudVectorStore) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
        this.hanaCloudVectorStore = hanaCloudVectorStore;
    }

    @PostMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/purge-embeddings")
    public ResponseEntity<String> purgeEmbeddings() {
        int deleteCount = ((HanaCloudVectorStore) this.hanaCloudVectorStore).purgeEmbeddings();
        log.info("{} embeddings purged from CRICKET_WORLD_CUP table in Hana DB", deleteCount);
        return ResponseEntity.ok().body(String.format("%d embeddings purged from CRICKET_WORLD_CUP table in Hana DB", deleteCount));
    }

    @PostMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup/upload")
    public ResponseEntity<String> handleFileUpload(@RequestParam("pdf") MultipartFile file) throws IOException {
        Resource pdf = file.getResource();
        Supplier<List<Document>> reader = new PagePdfDocumentReader(pdf);
        Function<List<Document>, List<Document>> splitter = new TokenTextSplitter();
        List<Document> documents = splitter.apply(reader.get());
        log.info("{} documents created from pdf file: {}", documents.size(), pdf.getFilename());
        hanaCloudVectorStore.accept(documents);
        return ResponseEntity.ok().body(String.format("%d documents created from pdf file: %s",
                documents.size(), pdf.getFilename()));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/hana-vector-store/cricket-world-cup")
    public Map<String, String> hanaVectorStoreSearch(@RequestParam(value = "message") String message) {
        var documents = this.hanaCloudVectorStore.similaritySearch(message);
        var inlined = documents.stream().map(Document::getContent).collect(Collectors.joining(System.lineSeparator()));
        var similarDocsMessage = new SystemPromptTemplate("Based on the following: {documents}")
                .createMessage(Map.of("documents", inlined));

        var userMessage = new UserMessage(message);
        Prompt prompt = new Prompt(List.of(similarDocsMessage, userMessage));
        String generation = chatModel.call(prompt).getResult().getOutput().getContent();
        log.info("Generation: {}", generation);
        return Map.of("generation", generation);
    }
}
----


* Use a `contextual` pdf file from wikipedia

Go to link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cricket_World_Cup[wikipedia] and link:https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Cricket_World_Cup&action=show-download-screen[download] `Cricket World Cup` page as a PDF file.

image::hanadb/wikipedia.png[width=800]

Upload this PDF file using the file-upload REST endpoint that we created in the previous step.
