spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/milvus.adoc, before:

= Milvus

link:https://milvus.io/[Milvus] is an open-source vector database that has garnered significant attention in the fields of data science and machine learning. One of its standout features lies in its robust support for vector indexing and querying. Milvus employs state-of-the-art, cutting-edge algorithms to accelerate the search process, making it exceptionally efficient at retrieving similar vectors, even when handling extensive datasets.

== Prerequisites

* A running Milvus instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://milvus.io/docs/install_standalone-docker.md[Milvus Standalone]: Docker, Operator, Helm,DEB/RPM, Docker Compose.
** link:https://milvus.io/docs/install_cluster-milvusoperator.md[Milvus Cluster]: Operator, Helm.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `MilvusVectorStore`.

== Dependencies

Then add the Milvus VectorStore boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-milvus</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-milvus'
}
----


TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Maven Central and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.


The vector store implementation can initialize the requisite schema for you, but you must opt-in by specifying the `initializeSchema` boolean in the appropriate constructor or by setting `...initialize-schema=true` in the `application.properties` file.

NOTE: this is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.



The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].


To connect to and configure the `MilvusVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`

[yml]
----
spring:
	ai:
		vectorstore:
			milvus:
				client:
					host: "localhost"
					port: 19530
					username: "root"
					password: "milvus"
				databaseName: "default"
				collectionName: "vector_store"
				embeddingDimension: 1536
				indexType: IVF_FLAT
				metricType: COSINE
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#milvus-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the Milvus Vector Store in your application and use it

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Milvus Vector Store
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `MilvusVectorStore`.
To add the following dependencies to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-milvus-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

To configure MilvusVectorStore in your application, you can use the following setup:

[source,java]
----
	@Bean
	public VectorStore vectorStore(MilvusServiceClient milvusClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
		return MilvusVectorStore.builder(milvusClient, embeddingModel)
				.collectionName("test_vector_store")
				.databaseName("default")
				.indexType(IndexType.IVF_FLAT)
				.metricType(MetricType.COSINE)
				.batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy())
				.initializeSchema(true)
				.build();
	}

	@Bean
	public MilvusServiceClient milvusClient() {
		return new MilvusServiceClient(ConnectParam.newBuilder()
			.withAuthorization("minioadmin", "minioadmin")
			.withUri(milvusContainer.getEndpoint())
			.build());
	}
----

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Milvus store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Milvus filters.

== Using MilvusSearchRequest

MilvusSearchRequest extends SearchRequest, allowing you to use Milvus-specific search parameters such as native expressions and search parameter JSON.

[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .similarityThreshold(0.7)
    .nativeExpression("metadata[\"age\"] > 30") // Overrides filterExpression if both are set
    .filterExpression("age <= 30") // Ignored if nativeExpression is set
    .searchParamsJson("{\"nprobe\":128}")
    .build();
List results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(request);
----
This allows greater flexibility when using Milvus-specific search features.

== Importance of `nativeExpression` and `searchParamsJson` in `MilvusSearchRequest`

These two parameters enhance Milvus search precision and ensure optimal query performance:

*nativeExpression*: Enables additional filtering capabilities using Milvus' native filtering expressions.
https://milvus.io/docs/boolean.md[Milvus Filtering]

Example:
[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .nativeExpression("metadata['category'] == 'science'")
    .build();
----

*searchParamsJson*: Essential for tuning search behavior when using IVF_FLAT, Milvus' default index.
https://milvus.io/docs/index.md?tab=floating[Milvus Vector Index]

By default, `IVF_FLAT` requires `nprobe` to be set for accurate results. If not specified, `nprobe` defaults to `1`, which can lead to poor recall or even zero search results.

Example:
[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .searchParamsJson("{\"nprobe\":128}")
    .build();
----

Using `nativeExpression` ensures advanced filtering, while `searchParamsJson` prevents ineffective searches caused by a low default `nprobe` value.

[[milvus-properties]]
== Milvus VectorStore properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the Milvus vector store.

[cols="4,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.database-name |  The name of the Milvus database to use.  | default
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.collection-name | Milvus collection name to store the vectors  | vector_store
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.initialize-schema | whether to initialize Milvus' backend | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.embedding-dimension | The dimension of the vectors to be stored in the Milvus collection.  | 1536
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.index-type | The type of the index to be created for the Milvus collection.  | IVF_FLAT
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.metric-type | The metric type to be used for the Milvus collection.  | COSINE
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.index-parameters | The index parameters to be used for the Milvus collection.  | {"nlist":1024}
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.id-field-name | The ID field name for the collection | doc_id
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.is-auto-id | Boolean flag to indicate if the auto-id is used for the ID field | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.content-field-name | The content field name for the collection | content
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.metadata-field-name | The metadata field name for the collection | metadata
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.embedding-field-name | The embedding field name for the collection | embedding
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.host |  The name or address of the host. | localhost
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.port |  The connection port. | 19530
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.uri |  The uri of Milvus instance | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.token	| Token serving as the key for identification and authentication purposes.  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.connect-timeout-ms | Connection timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be greater than zero . | 10000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.keep-alive-time-ms | Keep-alive time value of client channel. The keep-alive value must be greater than zero.  | 55000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.keep-alive-timeout-ms | The keep-alive timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be greater than zero. | 20000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.rpc-deadline-ms | Deadline for how long you are willing to wait for a reply from the server. With a deadline setting, the client will wait when encounter fast RPC fail caused by network fluctuations. The deadline value must be larger than or equal to zero. | 0
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.client-key-path |  The client.key path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.client-pem-path |  The client.pem path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.ca-pem-path | The ca.pem path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.server-pem-path | server.pem path for tls one-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true.  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.server-name |  Sets the target name override for SSL host name checking, only takes effect when "secure" is True. Note: this value is passed to grpc.ssl_target_name_override  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.secure | Secure the authorization for this connection, set to True to enable TLS.  | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.idle-timeout-ms | Idle timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be larger than zero.  | 24h
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.username | The username and password for this connection.  | root
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.password | The password for this connection.  | milvus
|===



== Starting Milvus Store

From within the `src/test/resources/` folder run:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose up
----

To clean the environment:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose down; rm -Rf ./volumes
----

Then connect to the vector store on link:http://localhost:19530[http://localhost:19530] or for management link:http://localhost:9001[http://localhost:9001] (user: `minioadmin`, pass: `minioadmin`)

== Troubleshooting

If Docker complains about resources, then execute:

[source,bash]
----
docker system prune --all --force --volumes
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Milvus Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Milvus client (`MilvusServiceClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
MilvusVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(MilvusVectorStore.class);
Optional<MilvusServiceClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    MilvusServiceClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Milvus-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Milvus-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/milvus.adoc, after:

= Milvus

link:https://milvus.io/[Milvus] is an open-source vector database that has garnered significant attention in the fields of data science and machine learning. One of its standout features lies in its robust support for vector indexing and querying. Milvus employs state-of-the-art, cutting-edge algorithms to accelerate the search process, making it exceptionally efficient at retrieving similar vectors, even when handling extensive datasets.

== Prerequisites

* A running Milvus instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://milvus.io/docs/install_standalone-docker.md[Milvus Standalone]: Docker, Operator, Helm,DEB/RPM, Docker Compose.
** link:https://milvus.io/docs/install_cluster-milvusoperator.md[Milvus Cluster]: Operator, Helm.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `MilvusVectorStore`.

== Dependencies

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Then add the Milvus VectorStore boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-milvus</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-milvus'
}
----


TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Maven Central and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.


The vector store implementation can initialize the requisite schema for you, but you must opt-in by specifying the `initializeSchema` boolean in the appropriate constructor or by setting `...initialize-schema=true` in the `application.properties` file.

NOTE: this is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.



The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].


To connect to and configure the `MilvusVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`

[yml]
----
spring:
	ai:
		vectorstore:
			milvus:
				client:
					host: "localhost"
					port: 19530
					username: "root"
					password: "milvus"
				databaseName: "default"
				collectionName: "vector_store"
				embeddingDimension: 1536
				indexType: IVF_FLAT
				metricType: COSINE
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#milvus-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the Milvus Vector Store in your application and use it

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Milvus Vector Store
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `MilvusVectorStore`.
To add the following dependencies to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-milvus-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

To configure MilvusVectorStore in your application, you can use the following setup:

[source,java]
----
	@Bean
	public VectorStore vectorStore(MilvusServiceClient milvusClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
		return MilvusVectorStore.builder(milvusClient, embeddingModel)
				.collectionName("test_vector_store")
				.databaseName("default")
				.indexType(IndexType.IVF_FLAT)
				.metricType(MetricType.COSINE)
				.batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy())
				.initializeSchema(true)
				.build();
	}

	@Bean
	public MilvusServiceClient milvusClient() {
		return new MilvusServiceClient(ConnectParam.newBuilder()
			.withAuthorization("minioadmin", "minioadmin")
			.withUri(milvusContainer.getEndpoint())
			.build());
	}
----

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Milvus store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Milvus filters.

== Using MilvusSearchRequest

MilvusSearchRequest extends SearchRequest, allowing you to use Milvus-specific search parameters such as native expressions and search parameter JSON.

[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .similarityThreshold(0.7)
    .nativeExpression("metadata[\"age\"] > 30") // Overrides filterExpression if both are set
    .filterExpression("age <= 30") // Ignored if nativeExpression is set
    .searchParamsJson("{\"nprobe\":128}")
    .build();
List results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(request);
----
This allows greater flexibility when using Milvus-specific search features.

== Importance of `nativeExpression` and `searchParamsJson` in `MilvusSearchRequest`

These two parameters enhance Milvus search precision and ensure optimal query performance:

*nativeExpression*: Enables additional filtering capabilities using Milvus' native filtering expressions.
https://milvus.io/docs/boolean.md[Milvus Filtering]

Example:
[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .nativeExpression("metadata['category'] == 'science'")
    .build();
----

*searchParamsJson*: Essential for tuning search behavior when using IVF_FLAT, Milvus' default index.
https://milvus.io/docs/index.md?tab=floating[Milvus Vector Index]

By default, `IVF_FLAT` requires `nprobe` to be set for accurate results. If not specified, `nprobe` defaults to `1`, which can lead to poor recall or even zero search results.

Example:
[source,java]
----
MilvusSearchRequest request = MilvusSearchRequest.milvusBuilder()
    .query("sample query")
    .topK(5)
    .searchParamsJson("{\"nprobe\":128}")
    .build();
----

Using `nativeExpression` ensures advanced filtering, while `searchParamsJson` prevents ineffective searches caused by a low default `nprobe` value.

[[milvus-properties]]
== Milvus VectorStore properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the Milvus vector store.

[cols="4,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.database-name |  The name of the Milvus database to use.  | default
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.collection-name | Milvus collection name to store the vectors  | vector_store
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.initialize-schema | whether to initialize Milvus' backend | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.embedding-dimension | The dimension of the vectors to be stored in the Milvus collection.  | 1536
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.index-type | The type of the index to be created for the Milvus collection.  | IVF_FLAT
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.metric-type | The metric type to be used for the Milvus collection.  | COSINE
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.index-parameters | The index parameters to be used for the Milvus collection.  | {"nlist":1024}
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.id-field-name | The ID field name for the collection | doc_id
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.is-auto-id | Boolean flag to indicate if the auto-id is used for the ID field | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.content-field-name | The content field name for the collection | content
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.metadata-field-name | The metadata field name for the collection | metadata
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.embedding-field-name | The embedding field name for the collection | embedding
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.host |  The name or address of the host. | localhost
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.port |  The connection port. | 19530
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.uri |  The uri of Milvus instance | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.token	| Token serving as the key for identification and authentication purposes.  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.connect-timeout-ms | Connection timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be greater than zero . | 10000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.keep-alive-time-ms | Keep-alive time value of client channel. The keep-alive value must be greater than zero.  | 55000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.keep-alive-timeout-ms | The keep-alive timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be greater than zero. | 20000
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.rpc-deadline-ms | Deadline for how long you are willing to wait for a reply from the server. With a deadline setting, the client will wait when encounter fast RPC fail caused by network fluctuations. The deadline value must be larger than or equal to zero. | 0
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.client-key-path |  The client.key path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.client-pem-path |  The client.pem path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.ca-pem-path | The ca.pem path for tls two-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.server-pem-path | server.pem path for tls one-way authentication, only takes effect when "secure" is true.  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.server-name |  Sets the target name override for SSL host name checking, only takes effect when "secure" is True. Note: this value is passed to grpc.ssl_target_name_override  | -
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.secure | Secure the authorization for this connection, set to True to enable TLS.  | false
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.idle-timeout-ms | Idle timeout value of client channel. The timeout value must be larger than zero.  | 24h
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.username | The username and password for this connection.  | root
|spring.ai.vectorstore.milvus.client.password | The password for this connection.  | milvus
|===



== Starting Milvus Store

From within the `src/test/resources/` folder run:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose up
----

To clean the environment:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose down; rm -Rf ./volumes
----

Then connect to the vector store on link:http://localhost:19530[http://localhost:19530] or for management link:http://localhost:9001[http://localhost:9001] (user: `minioadmin`, pass: `minioadmin`)

== Troubleshooting

If Docker complains about resources, then execute:

[source,bash]
----
docker system prune --all --force --volumes
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Milvus Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Milvus client (`MilvusServiceClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
MilvusVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(MilvusVectorStore.class);
Optional<MilvusServiceClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    MilvusServiceClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Milvus-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Milvus-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.
