spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/opensearch.adoc, before:

= OpenSearch

This section walks you through setting up `OpenSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://opensearch.org[OpenSearch] is an open-source search and analytics engine originally forked from Elasticsearch, distributed under the Apache License 2.0. It enhances AI application development by simplifying the integration and management of AI-generated assets. OpenSearch supports vector, lexical, and hybrid search capabilities, leveraging advanced vector database functionalities to facilitate low-latency queries and similarity searches as detailed on the link:https://opensearch.org/platform/search/vector-database.html[vector database page].

The link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/index/[OpenSearch k-NN] functionality allows users to query vector embeddings from large datasets. An embedding is a numerical representation of a data object, such as text, image, audio, or document. Embeddings can be stored in the index and queried using various similarity functions.

== Prerequisites

* A running OpenSearch instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/opensearch/install/index/[Self-Managed OpenSearch]
** link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/[Amazon OpenSearch Service]
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `OpenSearchVectorStore`.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenSearch Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

For Amazon OpenSearch Service, use these dependencies instead:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or for Gradle:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_configuration_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

Now you can auto-wire the `OpenSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to OpenSearch
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Configuration Properties

To connect to OpenSearch and use the `OpenSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  ai:
    vectorstore:
      opensearch:
        uris: <opensearch instance URIs>
        username: <opensearch username>
        password: <opensearch password>
        index-name: spring-ai-document-index
        initialize-schema: true
        similarity-function: cosinesimil
        batching-strategy: TOKEN_COUNT
        aws:  # Only for Amazon OpenSearch Service
          host: <aws opensearch host>
          service-name: <aws service name>
          access-key: <aws access key>
          secret-key: <aws secret key>
          region: <aws region>
----

Properties starting with `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.*` are used to configure the `OpenSearchVectorStore`:

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.uris`| URIs of the OpenSearch cluster endpoints | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.username`| Username for accessing the OpenSearch cluster | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.password`| Password for the specified username | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.index-name`| Name of the index to store vectors | `spring-ai-document-index`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.initialize-schema`| Whether to initialize the required schema | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.similarity-function`| The similarity function to use | `cosinesimil`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.batching-strategy`| Strategy for batching documents when calculating embeddings. Options are `TOKEN_COUNT` or `FIXED_SIZE` | `TOKEN_COUNT`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.host`| Hostname of the OpenSearch instance | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.service-name`| AWS service name | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.access-key`| AWS access key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.secret-key`| AWS secret key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.region`| AWS region | -
|===

The following similarity functions are available:

* `cosinesimil` - Default, suitable for most use cases. Measures cosine similarity between vectors.
* `l1` - Manhattan distance between vectors.
* `l2` - Euclidean distance between vectors.
* `linf` - Chebyshev distance between vectors.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the OpenSearch vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-opensearch-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-opensearch-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-opensearch-store'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Create an OpenSearch client bean:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public OpenSearchClient openSearchClient() {
    RestClient restClient = RestClient.builder(
        HttpHost.create("http://localhost:9200"))
        .build();
    
    return new OpenSearchClient(new RestClientTransport(
        restClient, new JacksonJsonpMapper()));
}
----

Then create the `OpenSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(OpenSearchClient openSearchClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OpenSearchVectorStore.builder(openSearchClient, embeddingModel)
        .index("custom-index")                // Optional: defaults to "spring-ai-document-index"
        .similarityFunction("l2")             // Optional: defaults to "cosinesimil"
        .initializeSchema(true)               // Optional: defaults to false
        .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy()) // Optional: defaults to TokenCountBatchingStrategy
        .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(new OpenAiApi(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")));
}
----

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#metadata-filters[metadata filters] with OpenSearch as well.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
        .query("The World")
        .topK(TOP_K)
        .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
        .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: Those (portable) filter expressions get automatically converted into the proprietary OpenSearch link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/[Query string query].

For example, this portable filter expression:

[source,sql]
----
author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'
----

is converted into the proprietary OpenSearch filter format:

[source,text]
----
(metadata.author:john OR jill) AND metadata.article_type:blog
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The OpenSearch Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native OpenSearch client (`OpenSearchClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OpenSearchVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OpenSearchVectorStore.class);
Optional<OpenSearchClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OpenSearchClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for OpenSearch-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to OpenSearch-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/opensearch.adoc, after:

= OpenSearch

This section walks you through setting up `OpenSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://opensearch.org[OpenSearch] is an open-source search and analytics engine originally forked from Elasticsearch, distributed under the Apache License 2.0. It enhances AI application development by simplifying the integration and management of AI-generated assets. OpenSearch supports vector, lexical, and hybrid search capabilities, leveraging advanced vector database functionalities to facilitate low-latency queries and similarity searches as detailed on the link:https://opensearch.org/platform/search/vector-database.html[vector database page].

The link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/index/[OpenSearch k-NN] functionality allows users to query vector embeddings from large datasets. An embedding is a numerical representation of a data object, such as text, image, audio, or document. Embeddings can be stored in the index and queried using various similarity functions.

== Prerequisites

* A running OpenSearch instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/opensearch/install/index/[Self-Managed OpenSearch]
** link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/[Amazon OpenSearch Service]
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `OpenSearchVectorStore`.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenSearch Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

For Amazon OpenSearch Service, use these dependencies instead:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or for Gradle:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_configuration_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

Now you can auto-wire the `OpenSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to OpenSearch
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Configuration Properties

To connect to OpenSearch and use the `OpenSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  ai:
    vectorstore:
      opensearch:
        uris: <opensearch instance URIs>
        username: <opensearch username>
        password: <opensearch password>
        index-name: spring-ai-document-index
        initialize-schema: true
        similarity-function: cosinesimil
        batching-strategy: TOKEN_COUNT
        aws:  # Only for Amazon OpenSearch Service
          host: <aws opensearch host>
          service-name: <aws service name>
          access-key: <aws access key>
          secret-key: <aws secret key>
          region: <aws region>
----

Properties starting with `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.*` are used to configure the `OpenSearchVectorStore`:

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.uris`| URIs of the OpenSearch cluster endpoints | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.username`| Username for accessing the OpenSearch cluster | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.password`| Password for the specified username | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.index-name`| Name of the index to store vectors | `spring-ai-document-index`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.initialize-schema`| Whether to initialize the required schema | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.similarity-function`| The similarity function to use | `cosinesimil`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.batching-strategy`| Strategy for batching documents when calculating embeddings. Options are `TOKEN_COUNT` or `FIXED_SIZE` | `TOKEN_COUNT`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.host`| Hostname of the OpenSearch instance | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.service-name`| AWS service name | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.access-key`| AWS access key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.secret-key`| AWS secret key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.region`| AWS region | -
|===

The following similarity functions are available:

* `cosinesimil` - Default, suitable for most use cases. Measures cosine similarity between vectors.
* `l1` - Manhattan distance between vectors.
* `l2` - Euclidean distance between vectors.
* `linf` - Chebyshev distance between vectors.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the OpenSearch vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-opensearch-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-opensearch-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-opensearch-store'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Create an OpenSearch client bean:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public OpenSearchClient openSearchClient() {
    RestClient restClient = RestClient.builder(
        HttpHost.create("http://localhost:9200"))
        .build();
    
    return new OpenSearchClient(new RestClientTransport(
        restClient, new JacksonJsonpMapper()));
}
----

Then create the `OpenSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(OpenSearchClient openSearchClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OpenSearchVectorStore.builder(openSearchClient, embeddingModel)
        .index("custom-index")                // Optional: defaults to "spring-ai-document-index"
        .similarityFunction("l2")             // Optional: defaults to "cosinesimil"
        .initializeSchema(true)               // Optional: defaults to false
        .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy()) // Optional: defaults to TokenCountBatchingStrategy
        .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(new OpenAiApi(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")));
}
----

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#metadata-filters[metadata filters] with OpenSearch as well.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
        .query("The World")
        .topK(TOP_K)
        .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
        .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: Those (portable) filter expressions get automatically converted into the proprietary OpenSearch link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/[Query string query].

For example, this portable filter expression:

[source,sql]
----
author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'
----

is converted into the proprietary OpenSearch filter format:

[source,text]
----
(metadata.author:john OR jill) AND metadata.article_type:blog
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The OpenSearch Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native OpenSearch client (`OpenSearchClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OpenSearchVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OpenSearchVectorStore.class);
Optional<OpenSearchClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OpenSearchClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for OpenSearch-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to OpenSearch-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.
