spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/oracle.adoc, before:

= Oracle Database 23ai - AI Vector Search

The link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/overview-ai-vector-search.html[AI Vector Search] capabilities of the Oracle Database 23ai (23.4+) are available as a Spring AI `VectorStore` to help you to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches. Of course, all other features are also available.

TIP: The <<Run Oracle Database 23ai locally,Run Oracle Database 23ai locally>> appendix shows how to start a database with a lightweight Docker container.

== Auto-Configuration

Start by adding the Oracle Vector Store boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-oracle</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-oracle'
}
----

If you need this vector store to initialize the schema for you then you'll need to pass true for the `initializeSchema` boolean parameter in the appropriate constructor or by setting `...initialize-schema=true` in the `application.properties` file.

NOTE: this is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.

The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].

For example to use the xref:api/embeddings/openai-embeddings.adoc[OpenAI EmbeddingModel] add the following dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Maven Central and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

To connect to and configure the `OracleVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your database.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`

[yml]
----
spring:
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:oracle:thin:@//localhost:1521/freepdb1
    username: mlops
    password: mlops
  ai:
	vectorstore:
	  oracle:
		index-type: IVF
		distance-type: COSINE
		dimensions: 1536
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#oracle-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the `OracleVectorStore` in your application and use it:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Oracle Vector Store
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

[[oracle-properties]]
=== Configuration properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the `OracleVectorStore`.

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.index-type`|  Nearest neighbor search index type. Options are `NONE` - exact nearest neighbor search, `IVF` - Inverted Flat File index. It has faster build times and uses less memory than HNSW, but has lower query performance (in terms of speed-recall tradeoff). `HNSW` - creates a multilayer graph. It has slower build times and uses more memory than IVF, but has better query performance (in terms of speed-recall tradeoff). | NONE
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.distance-type`| Search distance type among `COSINE` (default), `DOT`, `EUCLIDEAN`, `EUCLIDEAN_SQUARED`, and `MANHATTAN`.

NOTE: If vectors are normalized, you can use `DOT` or `COSINE` for best performance.| COSINE
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.forced-normalization`| Allows enabling vector normalization (if true) before insertion and for similarity search.

CAUTION: Setting this to true is a requirement to allow for xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#api-overview[search request similarity threshold].

NOTE: If vectors are normalized, you can use `DOT` or `COSINE` for best performance. | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.dimensions`| Embeddings dimension. If not specified explicitly the OracleVectorStore will allow the maximum: 65535. Dimensions are set to the embedding column on table creation. If you change the dimensions your would have to re-create the table as well. | 65535
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.remove-existing-vector-store-table` | Drops the existing table on start up.  | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.initialize-schema` | Whether to initialize the required schema. | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.search-accuracy` | Denote the requested accuracy target in the presence of index. Disabled by default. You need to provide an integer in the range [1,100] to override the default index accuracy (95). Using lower accuracy provides approximate similarity search trading off speed versus accuracy. | -1 (`DEFAULT_SEARCH_ACCURACY`)

|===

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the `OracleVectorStore`.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent `OracleVectorStore` filters.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OracleVectorStore`.
For this you need to add the Oracle JDBC driver and `JdbcTemplate` auto-configuration dependencies to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-jdbc</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
	<groupId>com.oracle.database.jdbc</groupId>
	<artifactId>ojdbc11</artifactId>
	<scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>

<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-oracle-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

To configure the `OracleVectorStore` in your application, you can use the following setup:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(JdbcTemplate jdbcTemplate, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OracleVectorStore.builder(jdbcTemplate, embeddingModel)
        .tableName("my_vectors")
        .indexType(OracleVectorStoreIndexType.IVF)
        .distanceType(OracleVectorStoreDistanceType.COSINE)
        .dimensions(1536)
        .searchAccuracy(95)
        .initializeSchema(true)
        .build();
}
----

== Run Oracle Database 23ai locally

----
docker run --rm --name oracle23ai -p 1521:1521 -e APP_USER=mlops -e APP_USER_PASSWORD=mlops -e ORACLE_PASSWORD=mlops gvenzl/oracle-free:23-slim
----

You can then connect to the database using:

----
sql mlops/mlops@localhost/freepdb1
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Oracle Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Oracle client (`OracleConnection`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OracleVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OracleVectorStore.class);
Optional<OracleConnection> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OracleConnection connection = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Oracle-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Oracle-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/oracle.adoc, after:

= Oracle Database 23ai - AI Vector Search

The link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/overview-ai-vector-search.html[AI Vector Search] capabilities of the Oracle Database 23ai (23.4+) are available as a Spring AI `VectorStore` to help you to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches. Of course, all other features are also available.

TIP: The <<Run Oracle Database 23ai locally,Run Oracle Database 23ai locally>> appendix shows how to start a database with a lightweight Docker container.

== Auto-Configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Start by adding the Oracle Vector Store boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-oracle</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-oracle'
}
----

If you need this vector store to initialize the schema for you then you'll need to pass true for the `initializeSchema` boolean parameter in the appropriate constructor or by setting `...initialize-schema=true` in the `application.properties` file.

NOTE: this is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.

The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].

For example to use the xref:api/embeddings/openai-embeddings.adoc[OpenAI EmbeddingModel] add the following dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Maven Central and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

To connect to and configure the `OracleVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your database.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`

[yml]
----
spring:
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:oracle:thin:@//localhost:1521/freepdb1
    username: mlops
    password: mlops
  ai:
	vectorstore:
	  oracle:
		index-type: IVF
		distance-type: COSINE
		dimensions: 1536
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#oracle-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the `OracleVectorStore` in your application and use it:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Oracle Vector Store
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = this.vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

[[oracle-properties]]
=== Configuration properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the `OracleVectorStore`.

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.index-type`|  Nearest neighbor search index type. Options are `NONE` - exact nearest neighbor search, `IVF` - Inverted Flat File index. It has faster build times and uses less memory than HNSW, but has lower query performance (in terms of speed-recall tradeoff). `HNSW` - creates a multilayer graph. It has slower build times and uses more memory than IVF, but has better query performance (in terms of speed-recall tradeoff). | NONE
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.distance-type`| Search distance type among `COSINE` (default), `DOT`, `EUCLIDEAN`, `EUCLIDEAN_SQUARED`, and `MANHATTAN`.

NOTE: If vectors are normalized, you can use `DOT` or `COSINE` for best performance.| COSINE
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.forced-normalization`| Allows enabling vector normalization (if true) before insertion and for similarity search.

CAUTION: Setting this to true is a requirement to allow for xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#api-overview[search request similarity threshold].

NOTE: If vectors are normalized, you can use `DOT` or `COSINE` for best performance. | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.dimensions`| Embeddings dimension. If not specified explicitly the OracleVectorStore will allow the maximum: 65535. Dimensions are set to the embedding column on table creation. If you change the dimensions your would have to re-create the table as well. | 65535
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.remove-existing-vector-store-table` | Drops the existing table on start up.  | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.initialize-schema` | Whether to initialize the required schema. | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.oracle.search-accuracy` | Denote the requested accuracy target in the presence of index. Disabled by default. You need to provide an integer in the range [1,100] to override the default index accuracy (95). Using lower accuracy provides approximate similarity search trading off speed versus accuracy. | -1 (`DEFAULT_SEARCH_ACCURACY`)

|===

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the `OracleVectorStore`.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author","john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent `OracleVectorStore` filters.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OracleVectorStore`.
For this you need to add the Oracle JDBC driver and `JdbcTemplate` auto-configuration dependencies to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-jdbc</artifactId>
</dependency>

<dependency>
	<groupId>com.oracle.database.jdbc</groupId>
	<artifactId>ojdbc11</artifactId>
	<scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>

<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-oracle-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

To configure the `OracleVectorStore` in your application, you can use the following setup:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(JdbcTemplate jdbcTemplate, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OracleVectorStore.builder(jdbcTemplate, embeddingModel)
        .tableName("my_vectors")
        .indexType(OracleVectorStoreIndexType.IVF)
        .distanceType(OracleVectorStoreDistanceType.COSINE)
        .dimensions(1536)
        .searchAccuracy(95)
        .initializeSchema(true)
        .build();
}
----

== Run Oracle Database 23ai locally

----
docker run --rm --name oracle23ai -p 1521:1521 -e APP_USER=mlops -e APP_USER_PASSWORD=mlops -e ORACLE_PASSWORD=mlops gvenzl/oracle-free:23-slim
----

You can then connect to the database using:

----
sql mlops/mlops@localhost/freepdb1
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The Oracle Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native Oracle client (`OracleConnection`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OracleVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OracleVectorStore.class);
Optional<OracleConnection> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OracleConnection connection = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for Oracle-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to Oracle-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.
