spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/qdrant.adoc, before:

= Qdrant

This section walks you through setting up the Qdrant `VectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://www.qdrant.tech/[Qdrant] is an open-source, high-performance vector search engine/database.

== Prerequisites

* Qdrant Instance: Set up a Qdrant instance by following the link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/guides/installation/[installation instructions] in the Qdrant documentation.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `QdrantVectorStore`.

To set up `QdrantVectorStore`, you'll need the following information from your Qdrant instance: `Host`, `GRPC Port`, `Collection Name`, and `API Key` (if required).

NOTE: It is recommended that the Qdrant collection is link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/collections/#create-a-collection[created] in advance with the appropriate dimensions and configurations.
If the collection is not created, the `QdrantVectorStore` will attempt to create one using the `Cosine` similarity and the dimension of the configured `EmbeddingModel`.

== Auto-configuration

Then add the Qdrant boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-qdrant-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qdrant-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].

For example to use the xref:api/embeddings/openai-embeddings.adoc[OpenAI EmbeddingModel] add the following dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

To connect to Qdrant and use the `QdrantVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's _application.properties_,

[source,properties]
----
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.host=<host of your qdrant instance>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.port=<the GRPC port of your qdrant instance>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.api-key=<your api key>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.collection-name=<The name of the collection to use in Qdrant>

# API key if needed, e.g. OpenAI
spring.ai.openai.api.key=<api-key>
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#qdrant-vectorstore-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the Qdrant Vector Store in your application and use it

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Qdrant
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.query("Spring").withTopK(5));
----

[[qdrant-vectorstore-properties]]
=== Configuration properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the Qdrant vector store.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.host`| The host of the Qdrant server. | localhost
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.port`| The gRPC port of the Qdrant server. | 6334
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.api-key`| The API key to use for authentication with the Qdrant server. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.collection-name`| The name of the collection to use in Qdrant. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.use-tls`| Whether to use TLS(HTTPS). | false
|===

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Qdrant vector store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.defaults()
    .withQuery("The World")
    .withTopK(TOP_K)
    .withSimilarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .withFilterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'"));
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.defaults()
    .withQuery("The World")
    .withTopK(TOP_K)
    .withSimilarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .withFilterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()));
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Qdrant link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/filtering/[filters].

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `QdrantVectorStore`. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-qdrant-store` dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-qdrant-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qdrant'
}
----

To configure Qdrant in your application, you can create a QdrantClient:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public QdrantClient qdrantClient() {

    QdrantGrpcClient.Builder grpcClientBuilder =
        QdrantGrpcClient.newBuilder(
            "<QDRANT_HOSTNAME>",
            <QDRANT_GRPC_PORT>,
            <IS_TSL>);
    grpcClientBuilder.withApiKey("<QDRANT_API_KEY>");

    return new QdrantClient(grpcClientBuilder.build());
}
----

Integrate with OpenAI's embeddings by adding the Spring Boot OpenAI starter to your project.
This provides you with an implementation of the Embeddings client:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public QdrantVectorStore vectorStore(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel, QdrantClient qdrantClient) {
    return new QdrantVectorStore(qdrantClient, "<QDRANT_COLLECTION_NAME>", embeddingModel);
}
----

Commit message:

Add property to initialize schema for vector stores
* Default is fale
* Update docs

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/qdrant.adoc, after:

= Qdrant

This section walks you through setting up the Qdrant `VectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://www.qdrant.tech/[Qdrant] is an open-source, high-performance vector search engine/database.

== Prerequisites

* Qdrant Instance: Set up a Qdrant instance by following the link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/guides/installation/[installation instructions] in the Qdrant documentation.
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `QdrantVectorStore`.

To set up `QdrantVectorStore`, you'll need the following information from your Qdrant instance: `Host`, `GRPC Port`, `Collection Name`, and `API Key` (if required).

NOTE: It is recommended that the Qdrant collection is link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/collections/#create-a-collection[created] in advance with the appropriate dimensions and configurations.
If the collection is not created, the `QdrantVectorStore` will attempt to create one using the `Cosine` similarity and the dimension of the configured `EmbeddingModel`.

== Auto-configuration

Then add the Qdrant boot starter dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-qdrant-store-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qdrant-store-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

The vector store implementation can initialize the requisite schema for you, but you must opt-in by specifying the `initializeSchema` boolean in the appropriate constructor or by setting `...initialize-schema=true` in the `application.properties` file.

NOTE: this is a breaking change! In earlier versions of Spring AI, this schema initialization happened by default.


The Vector Store, also requires an `EmbeddingModel` instance to calculate embeddings for the documents.
You can pick one of the available xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel Implementations].

For example to use the xref:api/embeddings/openai-embeddings.adoc[OpenAI EmbeddingModel] add the following dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-openai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add Milestone and/or Snapshot Repositories to your build file.

To connect to Qdrant and use the `QdrantVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can either be provided via Spring Boot's _application.properties_,

[source,properties]
----
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.host=<host of your qdrant instance>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.port=<the GRPC port of your qdrant instance>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.api-key=<your api key>
spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.collection-name=<The name of the collection to use in Qdrant>

# API key if needed, e.g. OpenAI
spring.ai.openai.api.key=<api-key>
----

TIP: Check the list of xref:#qdrant-vectorstore-properties[configuration parameters] to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Now you can Auto-wire the Qdrant Vector Store in your application and use it

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List <Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to Qdrant
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.query("Spring").withTopK(5));
----

[[qdrant-vectorstore-properties]]
=== Configuration properties

You can use the following properties in your Spring Boot configuration to customize the Qdrant vector store.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|===
|Property| Description | Default value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.host`| The host of the Qdrant server. | localhost
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.port`| The gRPC port of the Qdrant server. | 6334
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.api-key`| The API key to use for authentication with the Qdrant server. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.collection-name`| The name of the collection to use in Qdrant. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.use-tls`| Whether to use TLS(HTTPS). | false
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.qdrant.initialize-schema`| Whether to initialize the backend schema or not | false
|===

== Metadata filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/api/vectordbs.html#_metadata_filters[metadata filters] with the Qdrant vector store.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.defaults()
    .withQuery("The World")
    .withTopK(TOP_K)
    .withSimilarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .withFilterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && article_type == 'blog'"));
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.defaults()
    .withQuery("The World")
    .withTopK(TOP_K)
    .withSimilarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .withFilterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()));
----

NOTE: These filter expressions are converted into the equivalent Qdrant link:https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/filtering/[filters].

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `QdrantVectorStore`. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-qdrant-store` dependency to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-qdrant-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-qdrant'
}
----

To configure Qdrant in your application, you can create a QdrantClient:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public QdrantClient qdrantClient() {

    QdrantGrpcClient.Builder grpcClientBuilder =
        QdrantGrpcClient.newBuilder(
            "<QDRANT_HOSTNAME>",
            <QDRANT_GRPC_PORT>,
            <IS_TSL>);
    grpcClientBuilder.withApiKey("<QDRANT_API_KEY>");

    return new QdrantClient(grpcClientBuilder.build());
}
----

Integrate with OpenAI's embeddings by adding the Spring Boot OpenAI starter to your project.
This provides you with an implementation of the Embeddings client:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public QdrantVectorStore vectorStore(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel, QdrantClient qdrantClient) {
    return new QdrantVectorStore(qdrantClient, "<QDRANT_COLLECTION_NAME>", embeddingModel);
}
----
