spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/bedrock-converse.adoc, before:

= Bedrock Converse API

link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference.html[Amazon Bedrock] Converse API provides a unified interface for conversational AI models with enhanced capabilities including function/tool calling, multimodal inputs, and streaming responses.

The Bedrock Converse API has the following high-level features:

* Tool/Function Calling: Support for function definitions and tool use during conversations
* Multimodal Input: Ability to process both text and image inputs in conversations
* Streaming Support: Real-time streaming of model responses
* System Messages: Support for system-level instructions and context setting
* Metrics Integration: Built-in support for observation and metrics tracking

The https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock User Guide] contains detailed information on how to use the AWS hosted service.

TIP: The Bedrock Converse API provides a unified interface across multiple model providers while handling AWS-specific authentication and infrastructure concerns.

== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

* Obtain AWS credentials: If you don't have an AWS account and AWS CLI configured yet, this video guide can help you configure it: link:https://youtu.be/gswVHTrRX8I?si=buaY7aeI0l3-bBVb[AWS CLI & SDK Setup in Less Than 4 Minutes!]. You should be able to obtain your access and security keys.

* Enable the Models to use: Go to link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home[Amazon Bedrock] and from the link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home?region=us-east-1#/modelaccess[Model Access] menu on the left, configure access to the models you are going to use.


== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` or Gradle `build.gradle` build files:

[tabs]
======
Maven::
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

Gradle::
+
[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter'
}
----
======

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.


=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use.  | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout    | AWS timeout to use. | 5m
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.session-token | AWS session token for temporary credentials. | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat model implementation for the Converse API.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.enabled | Enable Bedrock Converse chat model. | true
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.model | The model ID to use. You can use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference-supported-models-features.html[Supported models and model features]  | anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0] | 0.8
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-p | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-k | Number of token choices for generating the next token. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.max-tokens | Maximum number of tokens in the generated response. | 500
|====

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

Use the portable `ChatOptions` or `FunctionCallingOptions` portable builders to create model configurations, such as temperature, maxToken, topP, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockConverseProxyChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call:

[source,java]
----
var options = FunctionCallingOptions.builder()
        .withModel("anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620-v1:0")
        .withTemperature(0.6)
        .withMaxTokens(300)
        .withFunctionCallbacks(List.of(FunctionCallbackWrapper.builder(new WeatherService())
            .withName("getCurrentWeather")
            .withDescription("Get the weather in location. Return temperature in 36°F or 36°C format. Use multi-turn if needed.")
            .build()))
        .build();

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(new Prompt("What is current weather in Amsterdam?", options));
----

== Tool/Function Calling

The Bedrock Converse API supports function calling capabilities, allowing models to use tools during conversations. Here's an example of how to define and use functions:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
@Description("Get the weather in location. Return temperature in 36°F or 36°C format.")
public Function<Request, Response> weatherFunction() {
    return new MockWeatherService();
}

String response = ChatClient.create(this.chatModel)
        .prompt("What's the weather like in Boston?")				
        .function("weatherFunction")
        .call()
        .content();
----

== Sample Controller

Create a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter` to your dependencies.

Add an `application.properties` file under `src/main/resources`:

[source,properties]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=10m
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.temperature=0.8
spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-k=15
----

Here's an example controller using the chat model:

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final ChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(ChatClient.Builder builder) {
        this.chatClient = builder.build();
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", this.chatClient.prompt(message).call().content());
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
    public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return this.chatClient.prompt(message).stream().content();
    }
}
----

Commit message:

docs: enhance Bedrock Converse API documentation
- Add migration note recommending transition from InvokeModel to Converse API
- Update model configuration to remove default model ID
- Add AWS session token configuration for temporary credentials
- Improve documentation links and descriptions

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/bedrock-converse.adoc, after:

= Bedrock Converse API

link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference.html[Amazon Bedrock Converse API] provides a unified interface for conversational AI models with enhanced capabilities including function/tool calling, multimodal inputs, and streaming responses.

The Bedrock Converse API has the following high-level features:

* Tool/Function Calling: Support for function definitions and tool use during conversations
* Multimodal Input: Ability to process both text and image inputs in conversations
* Streaming Support: Real-time streaming of model responses
* System Messages: Support for system-level instructions and context setting
// * Metrics Integration: Built-in support for observation and metrics tracking

TIP: The Bedrock Converse API provides a unified interface across multiple model providers while handling AWS-specific authentication and infrastructure concerns.

[NOTE]
====
Following the Bedrock recommendations, Spring AI is transitioning to using Amazon Bedrock's Converse API for all chat conversation implementations in Spring AI. 
While the existing `InvokeModel API` supports conversation applications, we strongly recommend adopting the Converse API for several key benefits:

- Unified Interface: Write your code once and use it with any supported Amazon Bedrock model
- Model Flexibility: Seamlessly switch between different conversation models without code changes
- Extended Functionality: Support for model-specific parameters through dedicated structures
- Tool Support: Native integration with function calling and tool usage capabilities
- Multimodal Capabilities: Built-in support for vision and other multimodal features
- Future-Proof: Aligned with Amazon Bedrock's recommended best practices

The Converse API does not support embedding operations, so these will remain in the current API and the embedding model functionality in the existing `InvokeModel API` will be maintained
====

== Prerequisites

Refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/getting-started.html[Getting started with Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access

* Obtain AWS credentials: If you don't have an AWS account and AWS CLI configured yet, this video guide can help you configure it: link:https://youtu.be/gswVHTrRX8I?si=buaY7aeI0l3-bBVb[AWS CLI & SDK Setup in Less Than 4 Minutes!]. You should be able to obtain your access and security keys.

* Enable the Models to use: Go to link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home[Amazon Bedrock] and from the link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home?region=us-east-1#/modelaccess[Model Access] menu on the left, configure access to the models you are going to use.


== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` or Gradle `build.gradle` build files:

[tabs]
======
Maven::
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

Gradle::
+
[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter'
}
----
======

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.


=== Chat Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,3,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use.  | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout    | AWS timeout to use. | 5m
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.session-token | AWS session token for temporary credentials. | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat` is the property prefix that configures the chat model implementation for the Converse API.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.enabled | Enable Bedrock Converse chat model. | true
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.model | The model ID to use. You can use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference-supported-models-features.html[Supported models and model features]  | None. Select your https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home?region=us-east-1#/models[modelId] from the AWS Bedrock console.
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.temperature | Controls the randomness of the output. Values can range over [0.0,1.0] | 0.8
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-p | The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-k | Number of token choices for generating the next token. | AWS Bedrock default
| spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.max-tokens | Maximum number of tokens in the generated response. | 500
|====

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

Use the portable `ChatOptions` or `FunctionCallingOptions` portable builders to create model configurations, such as temperature, maxToken, topP, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockConverseProxyChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call:

[source,java]
----
var options = FunctionCallingOptions.builder()
        .withModel("anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620-v1:0")
        .withTemperature(0.6)
        .withMaxTokens(300)
        .withFunctionCallbacks(List.of(FunctionCallbackWrapper.builder(new WeatherService())
            .withName("getCurrentWeather")
            .withDescription("Get the weather in location. Return temperature in 36°F or 36°C format. Use multi-turn if needed.")
            .build()))
        .build();

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(new Prompt("What is current weather in Amsterdam?", options));
----

== Tool/Function Calling

The Bedrock Converse API supports function calling capabilities, allowing models to use tools during conversations. Here's an example of how to define and use functions:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
@Description("Get the weather in location. Return temperature in 36°F or 36°C format.")
public Function<Request, Response> weatherFunction() {
    return new MockWeatherService();
}

String response = ChatClient.create(this.chatModel)
        .prompt("What's the weather like in Boston?")				
        .function("weatherFunction")
        .call()
        .content();
----

== Sample Controller

Create a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-converse-spring-boot-starter` to your dependencies.

Add an `application.properties` file under `src/main/resources`:

[source,properties]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=10m
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
# session token is only required for temporary credentials
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.session-token=${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN}

spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.temperature=0.8
spring.ai.bedrock.converse.chat.options.top-k=15
----

Here's an example controller using the chat model:

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final ChatClient chatClient;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(ChatClient.Builder builder) {
        this.chatClient = builder.build();
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", this.chatClient.prompt(message).call().content());
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
    public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return this.chatClient.prompt(message).stream().content();
    }
}
----
