spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/bedrock.adoc, before:

= Amazon Bedrock

link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock] is a managed service that provides foundation models from various AI providers, available through a unified API.

Spring AI supports https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[all the Chat and Embedding AI models] available through Amazon Bedrock by implementing the Spring interfaces `ChatModel`, `StreamingChatModel`, and  `EmbeddingModel`.

Additionally, Spring AI provides Spring Auto-Configurations and Boot Starters for all clients, making it easy to bootstrap and configure for the Bedrock models.

== Getting Started

There are a few steps to get started

* Add the Spring Boot starter for Bedrock to your project.
* Obtain AWS credentials: If you don't have an AWS account and AWS CLI configured yet, this video guide can help you configure it: link:https://youtu.be/gswVHTrRX8I?si=buaY7aeI0l3-bBVb[AWS CLI & SDK Setup in Less Than 4 Minutes!]. You should be able to obtain your access and security keys.
* Enable the Models to use: Go to link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home[Amazon Bedrock] and from the link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home?region=us-east-1#/modelaccess[Model Access] menu on the left, configure access to the models you are going to use.

=== Project Dependencies

Then add the Spring Boot Starter dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` build file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
 <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
 <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Connect to AWS Bedrock

Use the `BedrockAwsConnectionProperties` to configure AWS credentials and region:

[source,shell]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=us-east-1

spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=YOUR_SECRET_KEY

spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=10m
----

The `region` property is compulsory.

AWS credentials are resolved in the following order:

1. Spring-AI Bedrock `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key` and `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key` properties.
2. Java System Properties - `aws.accessKeyId` and `aws.secretAccessKey`.
3. Environment Variables - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.
4. Web Identity Token credentials from system properties or environment variables.
5. Credential profiles file at the default location (`~/.aws/credentials`) shared by all AWS SDKs and the AWS CLI.
6. Credentials delivered through the Amazon EC2 container service if the `AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI` environment variable is set and the security manager has permission to access the variable.
7. Instance profile credentials delivered through the Amazon EC2 metadata service or set the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

AWS region is resolved in the following order:

1. Spring-AI Bedrock `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region` property.
2. Java System Properties - `aws.region`.
3. Environment Variables - `AWS_REGION`.
4. Credential profiles file at the default location (`~/.aws/credentials`) shared by all AWS SDKs and the AWS CLI.
5. Instance profile region delivered through the Amazon EC2 metadata service.

In addition to the standard Spring-AI Bedrock credentials and region properties configuration, Spring-AI provides support for custom `AwsCredentialsProvider` and `AwsRegionProvider` beans.

NOTE: For example, using Spring-AI and https://spring.io/projects/spring-cloud-aws[Spring Cloud for Amazon Web Services] at the same time. Spring-AI is compatible with Spring Cloud for Amazon Web Services credential configuration.

=== Enable selected Bedrock model

NOTE: By default, all models are disabled. You have to enable the chosen Bedrock models explicitly using the `spring.ai.bedrock.<model>.<chat|embedding>.enabled=true` property.

Here are the supported `<model>` and `<chat|embedding>` combinations:

[cols="|,|,|,|"]
|====
| Model      | Chat | Chat Streaming | Embedding

| llama     | Yes  | Yes            | No
| jurassic2  | Yes  | No             | No
| cohere     | Yes  | Yes            | Yes
| anthropic 2 | Yes  | Yes            | No
| anthropic 3  | Yes  | Yes            | No
| jurassic2 (WIP)  | Yes  | No             | No
| titan      | Yes  | Yes            | Yes (however, no batch support)
|====

For example, to enable the Bedrock Llama chat model, you need to set `spring.ai.bedrock.llama.chat.enabled=true`.

Next, you can use the `spring.ai.bedrock.<model>.<chat|embedding>.*` properties to configure each model as provided.

For more information, refer to the documentation below for each supported model.

* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Anthropic 2 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.anthropic.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic3.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Anthropic 3 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.anthropic3.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-llama.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Llama Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.llama.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Cohere Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/embeddings/bedrock-cohere-embedding.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Cohere Embeddings]: `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-titan.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Titan Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.titan.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/embeddings/bedrock-titan-embedding.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Titan Embeddings]: `spring.ai.bedrock.titan.embedding.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Ai21 Jurassic2 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled=true`

Commit message:

Bedrock Converse: Add multimodal support for documents, images and videos
- Add BedrockMediaFormat class to handle media format conversions for documents, images and videos
- Enhance Media class with builder pattern and comprehensive format constants
- Refactor BedrockProxyChatModel to support multimodal content handling
- Add integration tests for PDF, image and video processing
- Add unit tests for Media and BedrockMediaFormat classes
- Upgrade AWS SDK version from 2.26.7 to 2.29.29
- Remove redundant aws.sdk.version property in favor of awssdk.version

Documentation updates for Bedrock Converse API

- Added multimodal support documentation (images, video, documents)
- Added deprecation notices for existing Bedrock model implementations
- Updated feature comparison table
- Added warning notes about transitioning to Converse API

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/bedrock.adoc, after:

= Amazon Bedrock

[NOTE]
====
Following the Bedrock recommendations, Spring AI is transitioning to using Amazon Bedrock's Converse API for all Chat conversation implementations in Spring AI. 
While the existing `InvokeModel API` supports conversation applications, we strongly recommend adopting the xref:api/chat/bedrock-converse.adoc[Bedrock Converse API] for several key benefits:

- Unified Interface: Write your code once and use it with any supported Amazon Bedrock model
- Model Flexibility: Seamlessly switch between different conversation models without code changes
- Extended Functionality: Support for model-specific parameters through dedicated structures
- Tool Support: Native integration with function calling and tool usage capabilities
- Multimodal Capabilities: Built-in support for vision and other multimodal features
- Future-Proof: Aligned with Amazon Bedrock's recommended best practices

The Converse API does not support embedding operations, so these will remain in the current API and the embedding model functionality in the existing `InvokeModel API` will be maintained
====


link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock] is a managed service that provides foundation models from various AI providers, available through a unified API.

Spring AI supports https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[all the Chat and Embedding AI models] available through Amazon Bedrock by implementing the Spring interfaces `ChatModel`, `StreamingChatModel`, and  `EmbeddingModel`.

Additionally, Spring AI provides Spring Auto-Configurations and Boot Starters for all clients, making it easy to bootstrap and configure for the Bedrock models.

== Getting Started

There are a few steps to get started

* Add the Spring Boot starter for Bedrock to your project.
* Obtain AWS credentials: If you don't have an AWS account and AWS CLI configured yet, this video guide can help you configure it: link:https://youtu.be/gswVHTrRX8I?si=buaY7aeI0l3-bBVb[AWS CLI & SDK Setup in Less Than 4 Minutes!]. You should be able to obtain your access and security keys.
* Enable the Models to use: Go to link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home[Amazon Bedrock] and from the link:https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/home?region=us-east-1#/modelaccess[Model Access] menu on the left, configure access to the models you are going to use.

=== Project Dependencies

Then add the Spring Boot Starter dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` build file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
 <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
 <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Connect to AWS Bedrock

Use the `BedrockAwsConnectionProperties` to configure AWS credentials and region:

[source,shell]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=us-east-1

spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=YOUR_SECRET_KEY

spring.ai.bedrock.aws.timeout=10m
----

The `region` property is compulsory.

AWS credentials are resolved in the following order:

1. Spring-AI Bedrock `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key` and `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key` properties.
2. Java System Properties - `aws.accessKeyId` and `aws.secretAccessKey`.
3. Environment Variables - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.
4. Web Identity Token credentials from system properties or environment variables.
5. Credential profiles file at the default location (`~/.aws/credentials`) shared by all AWS SDKs and the AWS CLI.
6. Credentials delivered through the Amazon EC2 container service if the `AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI` environment variable is set and the security manager has permission to access the variable.
7. Instance profile credentials delivered through the Amazon EC2 metadata service or set the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

AWS region is resolved in the following order:

1. Spring-AI Bedrock `spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region` property.
2. Java System Properties - `aws.region`.
3. Environment Variables - `AWS_REGION`.
4. Credential profiles file at the default location (`~/.aws/credentials`) shared by all AWS SDKs and the AWS CLI.
5. Instance profile region delivered through the Amazon EC2 metadata service.

In addition to the standard Spring-AI Bedrock credentials and region properties configuration, Spring-AI provides support for custom `AwsCredentialsProvider` and `AwsRegionProvider` beans.

NOTE: For example, using Spring-AI and https://spring.io/projects/spring-cloud-aws[Spring Cloud for Amazon Web Services] at the same time. Spring-AI is compatible with Spring Cloud for Amazon Web Services credential configuration.

=== Enable selected Bedrock model

NOTE: By default, all models are disabled. You have to enable the chosen Bedrock models explicitly using the `spring.ai.bedrock.<model>.<chat|embedding>.enabled=true` property.

Here are the supported `<model>` and `<chat|embedding>` combinations:

[cols="|,|,|,|"]
|====
| Model      | Chat | Chat Streaming | Embedding

| llama     | Yes  | Yes            | No
| jurassic2  | Yes  | No             | No
| cohere     | Yes  | Yes            | Yes
| anthropic 2 | Yes  | Yes            | No
| anthropic 3  | Yes  | Yes            | No
| jurassic2 (WIP)  | Yes  | No             | No
| titan      | Yes  | Yes            | Yes (however, no batch support)
|====

For example, to enable the Bedrock Llama chat model, you need to set `spring.ai.bedrock.llama.chat.enabled=true`.

Next, you can use the `spring.ai.bedrock.<model>.<chat|embedding>.*` properties to configure each model as provided.

For more information, refer to the documentation below for each supported model.

* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Anthropic 2 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.anthropic.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic3.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Anthropic 3 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.anthropic3.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-llama.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Llama Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.llama.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Cohere Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/embeddings/bedrock-cohere-embedding.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Cohere Embeddings]: `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-titan.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Titan Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.titan.chat.enabled=true`
* xref:api/embeddings/bedrock-titan-embedding.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Titan Embeddings]: `spring.ai.bedrock.titan.embedding.enabled=true`
* xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc[Spring AI Bedrock Ai21 Jurassic2 Chat]: `spring.ai.bedrock.jurassic2.chat.enabled=true`
