spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chatmodel.adoc, before:

[[ChatModel]]
= Chat Model API

The Chat Model API offers developers the ability to integrate AI-powered chat completion capabilities into their applications. It leverages pre-trained language models, such as GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer), to generate human-like responses to user inputs in natural language.

The API typically works by sending a prompt or partial conversation to the AI model, which then generates a completion or continuation of the conversation based on its training data and understanding of natural language patterns. The completed response is then returned to the application, which can present it to the user or use it for further processing.

The `Spring AI Chat Model API` is designed to be a simple and portable interface for interacting with various xref:concepts.adoc#_models[AI Models], allowing developers to switch between different models with minimal code changes.
This design aligns with Spring's philosophy of modularity and interchangeability.

Also with the help of companion classes like `Prompt` for input encapsulation and `ChatResponse` for output handling, the Chat Model API unifies the communication with AI Models.
It manages the complexity of request preparation and response parsing, offering a direct and simplified API interaction.

== API Overview

This section provides a guide to the Spring AI Chat Model API interface and associated classes.

=== ChatModel

Here is the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat//model/ChatModel.java[ChatModel] interface definition:

[source,java]
----
public interface ChatModel extends Model<Prompt, ChatResponse> {

	default String call(String message) {...}

    @Override
	ChatResponse call(Prompt prompt);
}

----

The `call()` method with a `String` parameter simplifies initial use, avoiding the complexities of the more sophisticated `Prompt` and `ChatResponse` classes.
In real-world applications, it is more common to use the `call()` method that takes a `Prompt` instance and returns a `ChatResponse`.

=== StreamingChatModel

Here is the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/StreamingChatModel.java[StreamingChatModel] interface definition:

[source,java]
----
public interface StreamingChatModel extends StreamingModel<Prompt, ChatResponse> {

    default Flux<String> stream(String message) {...}

    @Override
	Flux<ChatResponse> stream(Prompt prompt);
}
----

The `stream()` method takes a `String` or `Prompt` parameter similar to `ChatModel` but it streams the responses using the reactive Flux API.

=== Prompt

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/Prompt.java[Prompt] is a `ModelRequest` that encapsulates a list of https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] objects and optional model request options.
The following listing shows a truncated version of the `Prompt` class, excluding constructors and other utility methods:

[source,java]
----
public class Prompt implements ModelRequest<List<Message>> {

    private final List<Message> messages;

    private ChatOptions modelOptions;

	@Override
	public ChatOptions getOptions() {...}

	@Override
	public List<Message> getInstructions() {...}

    // constructors and utility methods omitted
}
----

==== Message

The `Message` interface encapsulates a `Prompt` textual content, a collection of metadata attributes, and a categorization known as `MessageType`.

The interface is defined as follows:

```java
public interface Content {

	String getContent();

	Map<String, Object> getMetadata();
}

public interface Message extends Content {

	MessageType getMessageType();
}
```

The multimodal message types implement also the `MediaContent` interface providing a list of `Media` content objects.

```java
public interface MediaContent extends Content {

	Collection<Media> getMedia();

}
```

The `Message` interface has various implementations that correspond to the categories of messages that an AI model can process:

image::spring-ai-message-api.jpg[Spring AI Message API, width=800, align="center"]

The chat completion endpoint, distinguish between message categories based on conversational roles, effectively mapped by the `MessageType`.

For instance, OpenAI recognizes message categories for distinct conversational roles such as `system`, `user`, `function`, or `assistant`.

While the term `MessageType` might imply a specific message format, in this context it effectively designates the role a message plays in the dialogue.

For AI models that do not use specific roles, the `UserMessage` implementation acts as a standard category, typically representing user-generated inquiries or instructions.
To understand the practical application and the relationship between `Prompt` and `Message`, especially in the context of these roles or message categories, see the detailed explanations in the xref:api/prompt.adoc[Prompts] section.

==== Chat Options

Represents the options that can be passed to the AI model. The `ChatOptions` class is a subclass of `ModelOptions` and is used to define few portable options that can be passed to the AI model.
The `ChatOptions` class is defined as follows:

[source,java]
----
public interface ChatOptions extends ModelOptions {

	String getModel();
	Float getFrequencyPenalty();
	Integer getMaxTokens();
	Float getPresencePenalty();
	List<String> getStopSequences();
	Float getTemperature();
	Integer getTopK();
	Float getTopP();
	ChatOptions copy();

}
----

Additionally, every model specific ChatModel/StreamingChatModel implementation can have its own options that can be passed to the AI model. For example, the OpenAI Chat Completion model has its own options like `logitBias`, `seed`, and `user`.

This is a powerful feature that allows developers to use model-specific options when starting the application and then override them at runtime using the `Prompt` request:

image::chat-options-flow.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

[[ChatResponse]]
=== ChatResponse

The structure of the `ChatResponse` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
public class ChatResponse implements ModelResponse<Generation> {

    private final ChatResponseMetadata chatResponseMetadata;
	private final List<Generation> generations;

	@Override
	public ChatResponseMetadata getMetadata() {...}

    @Override
	public List<Generation> getResults() {...}

    // other methods omitted
}
----

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/ChatResponse.java[ChatResponse] class holds the AI Model's output, with each `Generation` instance containing one of potentially multiple outputs resulting from a single prompt.

The `ChatResponse` class also carries a `ChatResponseMetadata` metadata about the AI Model's response.

[[Generation]]
=== Generation

Finally, the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/Generation.java[Generation] class extends from the `ModelResult` to represent the model output (assistant message) and related metadata:

[source,java]
----
public class Generation implements ModelResult<AssistantMessage> {

	private final AssistantMessage assistantMessage;
	private ChatGenerationMetadata chatGenerationMetadata;

	@Override
	public AssistantMessage getOutput() {...}

	@Override
	public ChatGenerationMetadata getMetadata() {...}

    // other methods omitted
}
----

== Available Implementations

The `ChatModel` and `StreamingChatModel` implementations are provided for the following Model providers:

image::spring-ai-chat-completions-clients.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

* xref:api/chat/openai-chat.adoc[OpenAI Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/azure-openai-chat.adoc[Microsoft Azure Open AI Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/ollama-chat.adoc[Ollama Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/huggingface.adoc[Hugging Face Chat Completion] (no streaming support)
* xref:api/chat/vertexai-palm2-chat.adoc[Google Vertex AI PaLM2 Chat Completion] (no streaming support)
* xref:api/chat/vertexai-gemini-chat.adoc[Google Vertex AI Gemini Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Amazon Bedrock]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc[Cohere Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-llama.adoc[Llama Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-titan.adoc[Titan Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic.adoc[Anthropic Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc[Jurassic2 Chat Completion]
* xref:api/chat/mistralai-chat.adoc[Mistral AI Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/anthropic-chat.adoc[Anthropic Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)

== Chat Model API

The Spring AI Chat Model API is built on top of the Spring AI `Generic Model API` providing Chat specific abstractions and implementations. The following class diagram illustrates the main classes and interfaces of the Spring AI Chat Model API.

image::spring-ai-chat-api.jpg[align="center", width="900px"]

// == Best Practices
//
// TBD
//
// == Troubleshooting
//
// TBD

// == Related Resources
//
// TBD

Commit message:

Docs: Add Chat Model comparision page

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chatmodel.adoc, after:

[[ChatModel]]
= Chat Model API

The Chat Model API offers developers the ability to integrate AI-powered chat completion capabilities into their applications. It leverages pre-trained language models, such as GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer), to generate human-like responses to user inputs in natural language.

The API typically works by sending a prompt or partial conversation to the AI model, which then generates a completion or continuation of the conversation based on its training data and understanding of natural language patterns. The completed response is then returned to the application, which can present it to the user or use it for further processing.

The `Spring AI Chat Model API` is designed to be a simple and portable interface for interacting with various xref:concepts.adoc#_models[AI Models], allowing developers to switch between different models with minimal code changes.
This design aligns with Spring's philosophy of modularity and interchangeability.

Also with the help of companion classes like `Prompt` for input encapsulation and `ChatResponse` for output handling, the Chat Model API unifies the communication with AI Models.
It manages the complexity of request preparation and response parsing, offering a direct and simplified API interaction.

You can find more about available implementations in the xref:api/chatmodel.adoc#_available_implementations[Available Implementations] section as well as detailed comparison in the xref:api/chat/comparison.adoc[Chat Models Comparison] section.

== API Overview

This section provides a guide to the Spring AI Chat Model API interface and associated classes.

=== ChatModel

Here is the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat//model/ChatModel.java[ChatModel] interface definition:

[source,java]
----
public interface ChatModel extends Model<Prompt, ChatResponse> {

	default String call(String message) {...}

    @Override
	ChatResponse call(Prompt prompt);
}

----

The `call()` method with a `String` parameter simplifies initial use, avoiding the complexities of the more sophisticated `Prompt` and `ChatResponse` classes.
In real-world applications, it is more common to use the `call()` method that takes a `Prompt` instance and returns a `ChatResponse`.

=== StreamingChatModel

Here is the link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/StreamingChatModel.java[StreamingChatModel] interface definition:

[source,java]
----
public interface StreamingChatModel extends StreamingModel<Prompt, ChatResponse> {

    default Flux<String> stream(String message) {...}

    @Override
	Flux<ChatResponse> stream(Prompt prompt);
}
----

The `stream()` method takes a `String` or `Prompt` parameter similar to `ChatModel` but it streams the responses using the reactive Flux API.

=== Prompt

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/prompt/Prompt.java[Prompt] is a `ModelRequest` that encapsulates a list of https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/messages/Message.java[Message] objects and optional model request options.
The following listing shows a truncated version of the `Prompt` class, excluding constructors and other utility methods:

[source,java]
----
public class Prompt implements ModelRequest<List<Message>> {

    private final List<Message> messages;

    private ChatOptions modelOptions;

	@Override
	public ChatOptions getOptions() {...}

	@Override
	public List<Message> getInstructions() {...}

    // constructors and utility methods omitted
}
----

==== Message

The `Message` interface encapsulates a `Prompt` textual content, a collection of metadata attributes, and a categorization known as `MessageType`.

The interface is defined as follows:

```java
public interface Content {

	String getContent();

	Map<String, Object> getMetadata();
}

public interface Message extends Content {

	MessageType getMessageType();
}
```

The multimodal message types implement also the `MediaContent` interface providing a list of `Media` content objects.

```java
public interface MediaContent extends Content {

	Collection<Media> getMedia();

}
```

The `Message` interface has various implementations that correspond to the categories of messages that an AI model can process:

image::spring-ai-message-api.jpg[Spring AI Message API, width=800, align="center"]

The chat completion endpoint, distinguish between message categories based on conversational roles, effectively mapped by the `MessageType`.

For instance, OpenAI recognizes message categories for distinct conversational roles such as `system`, `user`, `function`, or `assistant`.

While the term `MessageType` might imply a specific message format, in this context it effectively designates the role a message plays in the dialogue.

For AI models that do not use specific roles, the `UserMessage` implementation acts as a standard category, typically representing user-generated inquiries or instructions.
To understand the practical application and the relationship between `Prompt` and `Message`, especially in the context of these roles or message categories, see the detailed explanations in the xref:api/prompt.adoc[Prompts] section.

==== Chat Options

Represents the options that can be passed to the AI model. The `ChatOptions` class is a subclass of `ModelOptions` and is used to define few portable options that can be passed to the AI model.
The `ChatOptions` class is defined as follows:

[source,java]
----
public interface ChatOptions extends ModelOptions {

	String getModel();
	Float getFrequencyPenalty();
	Integer getMaxTokens();
	Float getPresencePenalty();
	List<String> getStopSequences();
	Float getTemperature();
	Integer getTopK();
	Float getTopP();
	ChatOptions copy();

}
----

Additionally, every model specific ChatModel/StreamingChatModel implementation can have its own options that can be passed to the AI model. For example, the OpenAI Chat Completion model has its own options like `logitBias`, `seed`, and `user`.

This is a powerful feature that allows developers to use model-specific options when starting the application and then override them at runtime using the `Prompt` request:

image::chat-options-flow.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

[[ChatResponse]]
=== ChatResponse

The structure of the `ChatResponse` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
public class ChatResponse implements ModelResponse<Generation> {

    private final ChatResponseMetadata chatResponseMetadata;
	private final List<Generation> generations;

	@Override
	public ChatResponseMetadata getMetadata() {...}

    @Override
	public List<Generation> getResults() {...}

    // other methods omitted
}
----

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/ChatResponse.java[ChatResponse] class holds the AI Model's output, with each `Generation` instance containing one of potentially multiple outputs resulting from a single prompt.

The `ChatResponse` class also carries a `ChatResponseMetadata` metadata about the AI Model's response.

[[Generation]]
=== Generation

Finally, the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/chat/model/Generation.java[Generation] class extends from the `ModelResult` to represent the model output (assistant message) and related metadata:

[source,java]
----
public class Generation implements ModelResult<AssistantMessage> {

	private final AssistantMessage assistantMessage;
	private ChatGenerationMetadata chatGenerationMetadata;

	@Override
	public AssistantMessage getOutput() {...}

	@Override
	public ChatGenerationMetadata getMetadata() {...}

    // other methods omitted
}
----

== Available Implementations

The `ChatModel` and `StreamingChatModel` implementations are provided for the following Model providers:

image::spring-ai-chat-completions-clients.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

* xref:api/chat/openai-chat.adoc[OpenAI Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/azure-openai-chat.adoc[Microsoft Azure Open AI Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/ollama-chat.adoc[Ollama Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/huggingface.adoc[Hugging Face Chat Completion] (no streaming support)
* xref:api/chat/vertexai-palm2-chat.adoc[Google Vertex AI PaLM2 Chat Completion] (no streaming support)
* xref:api/chat/vertexai-gemini-chat.adoc[Google Vertex AI Gemini Chat Completion] (streaming, multi-modality & function-calling support)
* xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Amazon Bedrock]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-cohere.adoc[Cohere Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-llama.adoc[Llama Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-titan.adoc[Titan Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-anthropic.adoc[Anthropic Chat Completion]
** xref:api/chat/bedrock/bedrock-jurassic2.adoc[Jurassic2 Chat Completion]
* xref:api/chat/mistralai-chat.adoc[Mistral AI Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)
* xref:api/chat/anthropic-chat.adoc[Anthropic Chat Completion] (streaming & function-calling support)

== Chat Model API

The Spring AI Chat Model API is built on top of the Spring AI `Generic Model API` providing Chat specific abstractions and implementations. The following class diagram illustrates the main classes and interfaces of the Spring AI Chat Model API.

image::spring-ai-chat-api.jpg[align="center", width="900px"]

// == Best Practices
//
// TBD
//
// == Troubleshooting
//
// TBD

// == Related Resources
//
// TBD
