spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/function-callback.adoc, before:

= FunctionCallback

The `FunctionCallback` interface in Spring AI provides a standardized way to implement Large Language Model (LLM) function calling capabilities. It allows developers to register custom functions that can be called by AI models when specific conditions or intents are detected in the prompts.

The `FunctionCallback` interface defines several key methods:

* `getName()`: Returns the unique function name within the AI model context
* `getDescription()`: Provides a description that helps the model decide when to invoke the function
* `getInputTypeSchema()`: Defines the JSON schema for the function's input parameters
* `call(String functionArguments)`: Handles the actual function execution
* `call(String functionArguments, ToolContext toolContext)`: Extended version that supports additional xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[tool context]

== Builder Pattern

Spring AI provides a fluent builder API for creating `FunctionCallback` implementations. 
This is particularly useful for defining function callbacks that you can register, pragmatically, on the fly, with your `ChatClient` or `ChatModel` model calls.

Use the `FunctionCallback.builder()` method to create a new builder instance and chain the configuration methods to set the function name, description, input type, and other properties.
The `FunctionCallback.Builder` is a hierarchical with the following structure:

- FunctionCallback.Builder - The root builder interface used for configuring the xref:_common_configurations[shared properties].
- FunctionInvokingSpec - The xref:Function-Invoking[function invoking] builder interface.
- MethodInvokingSpec - The xref:Method-Invoking[method invoking] builder interface.

[[Function-Invoking]]
== Function-Invoking Approach

Converts any `java.util.function.Function`, `BiFunction`, `Supplier` or `Consumer` into a `FunctionCallback` that can be called by the AI model.

NOTE: You can use lambda expressions or method references to define the function logic but you must provide the input type of the function using the `inputType(TYPE)`.

=== Function<I, O>

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .function("processOrder", (Order order) -> processOrderLogic(order))
    .description("Process a new order")
    .inputType(Order.class)
    .build();
----

=== BiFunction<I, ToolContext, O> 

Using Function with input type <I> and additional xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] parameter:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .function("processOrder", (Order order, ToolContext context) -> 
        processOrderWithContext(order, context))
    .description("Process a new order with context")
    .inputType(Order.class)
    .build();
----

=== Supplier<O>

Use `java.util.Supplier<O>` or `java.util.function.Function<Void, O>` to define functions that don't take any input:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("turnsLight", () -> state.put("Light", "ON"))
    .description("Turns light on in the living room")
    .inputType(Void.class)
	.build();
----

=== Consumer<I>

Use `java.util.Consumer<I>` or `java.util.function.Function<I, Void>` to define functions that don't produce output:

[source,java]
----
record LightInfo(String roomName, boolean isOn) {}

FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("turnsLight", (LightInfo lightInfo) -> {
				logger.info("Turning light to [" + lightInfo.isOn + "] in " + lightInfo.roomName());
			})
    .description("Turns light on/off in a selected room")
    .inputType(LightInfo.class)
	.build();
----

=== Generics Input Type

Use the `ParameterizedTypeReference` to define functions with generic input types:

[source,java]
----
record TrainSearchRequest<T>(T data) {}

record TrainSearchSchedule(String from, String to, String date) {}

record TrainSearchScheduleResponse(String from, String to, String date, String trainNumber) {}

FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("trainSchedule", (TrainSearchRequest<TrainSearchSchedule> request) -> {
        logger.info("Schedule: " + request.data().from() + " to " + request.data().to());
        return new TrainSearchScheduleResponse(request.data().from(), request.  data().to(), "", "123");
    })
    .description("Schedule a train reservation")
    .inputType(new ParameterizedTypeReference<TrainSearchRequest<TrainSearchSchedule>>() {})
	.build();
----

[[Method-Invoking]]
== Method Invoking Approach

Enables method invocation through reflection while automatically handling JSON schema generation and parameter conversion. It’s particularly useful for integrating Java methods as callable functions within AI model interactions.

The method invoking implements the `FunctionCallback` interface and provides:

- Automatic JSON schema generation for method parameters
- Support for both static and instance methods
- Any number of parameters (including none) and return values (including void)
- Any parameter/return types (primitives, objects, collections)
- Special handling for xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] parameters

=== Static Method Invocation

You can refer to a static method in a class by providing the method name, parameter types, and the target class.

[source,java]
----
public class WeatherService {
    public static String getWeather(String city, TemperatureUnit unit) {
        return "Temperature in " + city + ": 20" + unit;
    }
}

FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .method("getWeather", String.class, TemperatureUnit.class)
    .description("Get weather information for a city")
    .targetClass(WeatherService.class)
    .build();
----

=== Object instance Method Invocation

You can refer to an instance method in a class by providing the method name, parameter types, and the target object instance.

[source,java]
----
public class DeviceController {
    public void setDeviceState(String deviceId, boolean state, ToolContext context) {
        Map<String, Object> contextData = context.getContext();
        // Implementation using context data
    }
}

DeviceController controller = new DeviceController();

String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
    .user("Turn on the living room lights")
    .functions(FunctionCallback.builder()
        .method("setDeviceState", String.class,boolean.class,ToolContext.class)
        .description("Control device state")
        .targetObject(controller)
        .build())
    .toolContext(Map.of("location", "home"))
    .call()
    .content();
----

TIP: Optionally, using the `.name()`, you can set a custom function name different from the method name.

== Common Configurations

There are several common configurations that you can use to customize the function callbacks.

=== Schema Type

The framework supports different schema types for generating the schemas for the input parameters:

* JSON Schema (default)
* OpenAPI Schema (for Vertex AI compatibility)

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .schemaType(SchemaType.OPEN_API_SCHEMA)
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

=== Custom Response Handling

You can provide a custom response converter to format the function response before sending it back to the AI model.
Most AI Models expect an text response, so it is your responsibility to convert the function response to a text format.
By default, the response is converted to a String.

TIP: Many models cope well with JSON responses, so you can return a JSON string.

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .responseConverter(response -> 
        customResponseFormatter.format(response))
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

=== Custom Object Mapping

Spring AI uses ObjectMapper for JSON serialization and deserialization. 
You can provide a custom ObjectMapper to handle custom object mapping:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .objectMapper(customObjectMapper)
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

== Best Practices

=== Descriptive Names and Descriptions

* Provide unique function names
* Write comprehensive descriptions to help the model understand when to invoke the function

=== Input Type & Schema

* For the function invoking approach, define input types explicitly and use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.
* Consider using custom schema when auto-generated ones don't meet requirements.

=== Error Handling

* Implement proper error handling in function implementations and return the error message in the response
* You can use the ToolContext to provide additional error context when needed

=== Tool Context Usage

* Use xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] when additional state or context is required that is provided from the User and not part of the function input generated by the AI model.
* Use `BiFunction<I, ToolContext, O>` to access the ToolContext in the function invocation approach and add `ToolContext` parameter in the method invoking approach.

=== Notes on Schema Generation

* The framework automatically generates JSON schemas from Java types
* For function invoking, the schema is generated based on the input type for the function that needs to be set using `inputType(TYPE)`. Use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.
* Generated schemas respect Jackson annotations on model classes
* You can bypass the automatic generation by providing custom schemas using `inputTypeSchema()`

=== Common Pitfalls to Avoid

==== Lack of Description
* Always provide explicit descriptions instead of relying on auto-generated ones
* Clear descriptions improve model's function selection accuracy

==== Schema Mismatches
* Ensure input types match the Function's input parameter types.
* Use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.

Commit message:

Advancing Tool Support - Part 6
* Completed new documentation for Tool Calling
* Added deprecation notes and migration guide to documentation
* Made “call” methods explicit in ToolCallback API
* Consolidated naming: ToolCallExceptionConverter -> ToolExecutionExceptionProcessor
* Consolidated naming: ToolCallResultConvert.apply() -> ToolCallResultConvert.convert()
* Redraw diagrams for consistency

Relates to gh-2049

Signed-off-by: Thomas Vitale <ThomasVitale@users.noreply.github.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/function-callback.adoc, after:

= FunctionCallback

WARNING: This page describes the previous version of the Function Calling API, which has been deprecated and marked for remove in the next release. The current version is available at xref:api/tools.adoc[Tool Calling]. See the xref:api/tools-migration.adoc[Migration Guide] for more information.

The `FunctionCallback` interface in Spring AI provides a standardized way to implement Large Language Model (LLM) function calling capabilities. It allows developers to register custom functions that can be called by AI models when specific conditions or intents are detected in the prompts.

The `FunctionCallback` interface defines several key methods:

* `getName()`: Returns the unique function name within the AI model context
* `getDescription()`: Provides a description that helps the model decide when to invoke the function
* `getInputTypeSchema()`: Defines the JSON schema for the function's input parameters
* `call(String functionArguments)`: Handles the actual function execution
* `call(String functionArguments, ToolContext toolContext)`: Extended version that supports additional xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[tool context]

== Builder Pattern

Spring AI provides a fluent builder API for creating `FunctionCallback` implementations. 
This is particularly useful for defining function callbacks that you can register, pragmatically, on the fly, with your `ChatClient` or `ChatModel` model calls.

Use the `FunctionCallback.builder()` method to create a new builder instance and chain the configuration methods to set the function name, description, input type, and other properties.
The `FunctionCallback.Builder` is a hierarchical with the following structure:

- FunctionCallback.Builder - The root builder interface used for configuring the xref:_common_configurations[shared properties].
- FunctionInvokingSpec - The xref:Function-Invoking[function invoking] builder interface.
- MethodInvokingSpec - The xref:Method-Invoking[method invoking] builder interface.

[[Function-Invoking]]
== Function-Invoking Approach

Converts any `java.util.function.Function`, `BiFunction`, `Supplier` or `Consumer` into a `FunctionCallback` that can be called by the AI model.

NOTE: You can use lambda expressions or method references to define the function logic but you must provide the input type of the function using the `inputType(TYPE)`.

=== Function<I, O>

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .function("processOrder", (Order order) -> processOrderLogic(order))
    .description("Process a new order")
    .inputType(Order.class)
    .build();
----

=== BiFunction<I, ToolContext, O> 

Using Function with input type <I> and additional xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] parameter:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .function("processOrder", (Order order, ToolContext context) -> 
        processOrderWithContext(order, context))
    .description("Process a new order with context")
    .inputType(Order.class)
    .build();
----

=== Supplier<O>

Use `java.util.Supplier<O>` or `java.util.function.Function<Void, O>` to define functions that don't take any input:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("turnsLight", () -> state.put("Light", "ON"))
    .description("Turns light on in the living room")
    .inputType(Void.class)
	.build();
----

=== Consumer<I>

Use `java.util.Consumer<I>` or `java.util.function.Function<I, Void>` to define functions that don't produce output:

[source,java]
----
record LightInfo(String roomName, boolean isOn) {}

FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("turnsLight", (LightInfo lightInfo) -> {
				logger.info("Turning light to [" + lightInfo.isOn + "] in " + lightInfo.roomName());
			})
    .description("Turns light on/off in a selected room")
    .inputType(LightInfo.class)
	.build();
----

=== Generics Input Type

Use the `ParameterizedTypeReference` to define functions with generic input types:

[source,java]
----
record TrainSearchRequest<T>(T data) {}

record TrainSearchSchedule(String from, String to, String date) {}

record TrainSearchScheduleResponse(String from, String to, String date, String trainNumber) {}

FunctionCallback.builder()
	.function("trainSchedule", (TrainSearchRequest<TrainSearchSchedule> request) -> {
        logger.info("Schedule: " + request.data().from() + " to " + request.data().to());
        return new TrainSearchScheduleResponse(request.data().from(), request.  data().to(), "", "123");
    })
    .description("Schedule a train reservation")
    .inputType(new ParameterizedTypeReference<TrainSearchRequest<TrainSearchSchedule>>() {})
	.build();
----

[[Method-Invoking]]
== Method Invoking Approach

Enables method invocation through reflection while automatically handling JSON schema generation and parameter conversion. It’s particularly useful for integrating Java methods as callable functions within AI model interactions.

The method invoking implements the `FunctionCallback` interface and provides:

- Automatic JSON schema generation for method parameters
- Support for both static and instance methods
- Any number of parameters (including none) and return values (including void)
- Any parameter/return types (primitives, objects, collections)
- Special handling for xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] parameters

=== Static Method Invocation

You can refer to a static method in a class by providing the method name, parameter types, and the target class.

[source,java]
----
public class WeatherService {
    public static String getWeather(String city, TemperatureUnit unit) {
        return "Temperature in " + city + ": 20" + unit;
    }
}

FunctionCallback callback = FunctionCallback.builder()
    .method("getWeather", String.class, TemperatureUnit.class)
    .description("Get weather information for a city")
    .targetClass(WeatherService.class)
    .build();
----

=== Object instance Method Invocation

You can refer to an instance method in a class by providing the method name, parameter types, and the target object instance.

[source,java]
----
public class DeviceController {
    public void setDeviceState(String deviceId, boolean state, ToolContext context) {
        Map<String, Object> contextData = context.getContext();
        // Implementation using context data
    }
}

DeviceController controller = new DeviceController();

String response = ChatClient.create(chatModel).prompt()
    .user("Turn on the living room lights")
    .functions(FunctionCallback.builder()
        .method("setDeviceState", String.class,boolean.class,ToolContext.class)
        .description("Control device state")
        .targetObject(controller)
        .build())
    .toolContext(Map.of("location", "home"))
    .call()
    .content();
----

TIP: Optionally, using the `.name()`, you can set a custom function name different from the method name.

== Common Configurations

There are several common configurations that you can use to customize the function callbacks.

=== Schema Type

The framework supports different schema types for generating the schemas for the input parameters:

* JSON Schema (default)
* OpenAPI Schema (for Vertex AI compatibility)

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .schemaType(SchemaType.OPEN_API_SCHEMA)
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

=== Custom Response Handling

You can provide a custom response converter to format the function response before sending it back to the AI model.
Most AI Models expect an text response, so it is your responsibility to convert the function response to a text format.
By default, the response is converted to a String.

TIP: Many models cope well with JSON responses, so you can return a JSON string.

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .responseConverter(response -> 
        customResponseFormatter.format(response))
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

=== Custom Object Mapping

Spring AI uses ObjectMapper for JSON serialization and deserialization. 
You can provide a custom ObjectMapper to handle custom object mapping:

[source,java]
----
FunctionCallback.builder()
    .objectMapper(customObjectMapper)
    // ... other configuration
    .build();
----

== Best Practices

=== Descriptive Names and Descriptions

* Provide unique function names
* Write comprehensive descriptions to help the model understand when to invoke the function

=== Input Type & Schema

* For the function invoking approach, define input types explicitly and use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.
* Consider using custom schema when auto-generated ones don't meet requirements.

=== Error Handling

* Implement proper error handling in function implementations and return the error message in the response
* You can use the ToolContext to provide additional error context when needed

=== Tool Context Usage

* Use xref:api/functions.adoc#Tool-Context[ToolContext] when additional state or context is required that is provided from the User and not part of the function input generated by the AI model.
* Use `BiFunction<I, ToolContext, O>` to access the ToolContext in the function invocation approach and add `ToolContext` parameter in the method invoking approach.

=== Notes on Schema Generation

* The framework automatically generates JSON schemas from Java types
* For function invoking, the schema is generated based on the input type for the function that needs to be set using `inputType(TYPE)`. Use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.
* Generated schemas respect Jackson annotations on model classes
* You can bypass the automatic generation by providing custom schemas using `inputTypeSchema()`

=== Common Pitfalls to Avoid

==== Lack of Description
* Always provide explicit descriptions instead of relying on auto-generated ones
* Clear descriptions improve model's function selection accuracy

==== Schema Mismatches
* Ensure input types match the Function's input parameter types.
* Use `ParameterizedTypeReference` for generic types.
