spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/retrieval-augmented-generation.adoc, before:

[[rag]]
= Retrieval Augmented Generation

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a technique useful to overcome the limitations of large language models
that struggle with long-form content, factual accuracy, and context-awareness.

Spring AI supports RAG by providing a modular architecture that allows you to build custom RAG flows yourself
or use out-of-the-box RAG flows using the `Advisor` API.

NOTE: Learn more about Retrieval Augmented Generation in the xref:concepts.adoc#concept-rag[concepts] section.

== Advisors

Spring AI provides out-of-the-box support for common RAG flows using the `Advisor` API.

=== QuestionAnswerAdvisor

A vector database stores data that the AI model is unaware of.
When a user question is sent to the AI model, a `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` queries the vector database for documents related to the user question.

The response from the vector database is appended to the user text to provide context for the AI model to generate a response.

Assuming you have already loaded data into a `VectorStore`, you can perform Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) by providing an instance of `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` to the `ChatClient`.

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = ChatClient.builder(chatModel)
        .build().prompt()
        .advisors(new QuestionAnswerAdvisor(vectorStore, SearchRequest.defaults()))
        .user(userText)
        .call()
        .chatResponse();
----

In this example, the `SearchRequest.defaults()` will perform a similarity search over all documents in the Vector Database.
To restrict the types of documents that are searched, the `SearchRequest` takes an SQL like filter expression that is portable across all `VectorStores`.

==== Dynamic Filter Expressions

Update the `SearchRequest` filter expression at runtime using the `FILTER_EXPRESSION` advisor context parameter:

[source,java]
----
ChatClient chatClient = ChatClient.builder(chatModel)
    .defaultAdvisors(new QuestionAnswerAdvisor(vectorStore, SearchRequest.defaults()))
    .build();

// Update filter expression at runtime
String content = this.chatClient.prompt()
    .user("Please answer my question XYZ")
    .advisors(a -> a.param(QuestionAnswerAdvisor.FILTER_EXPRESSION, "type == 'Spring'"))
    .call()
    .content();
----

The `FILTER_EXPRESSION` parameter allows you to dynamically filter the search results based on the provided expression.

=== RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor (Incubating)

Spring AI includes a xref:api/retrieval-augmented-generation.adoc#modules[library of RAG modules] that you can use to build your own RAG flows.
The `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` is an experimental `Advisor` providing an out-of-the-box implementation for the most common RAG flows,
based on a modular architecture.

WARNING: The `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` is an experimental feature and is subject to change in future releases.

==== Sequential RAG Flows

===== Naive RAG

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

By default, the `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` does not allow the retrieved context to be empty. When that happens,
it instructs the model not to answer the user query. You can allow empty context as follows.

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .queryAugmenter(ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder()
                .allowEmptyContext(true)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

===== Advanced RAG

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .queryTransformer(RewriteQueryTransformer.builder()
                .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder.build().mutate())
                .build())
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

[[modules]]
== Modules

Spring AI implements a Modular RAG architecture inspired by the concept of modularity detailed in the paper
"https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21059[Modular RAG: Transforming RAG Systems into LEGO-like Reconfigurable Frameworks]".

WARNING:: Modular RAG is an experimental feature and is subject to change in future releases.

=== Pre-Retrieval

Pre-Retrieval modules are responsible for processing the user query to achieve the best possible retrieval results.

==== Query Transformation

A component for transforming the input query to make it more effective for retrieval tasks, addressing challenges
such as poorly formed queries, ambiguous terms, complex vocabulary, or unsupported languages.

===== CompressionQueryTransformer

A `CompressionQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to compress a conversation history and a follow-up query
into a standalone query that captures the essence of the conversation.

This transformer is useful when the conversation history is long and the follow-up query is related
to the conversation context.

[source,java]
----
Query query = Query.builder()
        .text("And what is its second largest city?")
        .history(new UserMessage("What is the capital of Denmark?"),
                new AssistantMessage("Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark."))
        .build();

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = CompressionQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

===== RewriteQueryTransformer

A `RewriteQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to rewrite a user query to provide better results when
querying a target system, such as a vector store or a web search engine.

This transformer is useful when the user query is verbose, ambiguous, or contains irrelevant information
that may affect the quality of the search results.

[source,java]
----
Query query = new Query("I'm studying machine learning. What is an LLM?");

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = RewriteQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

===== TranslationQueryTransformer

A `TranslationQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to translate a query to a target language that is supported
by the embedding model used to generate the document embeddings. If the query is already in the target language,
it is returned unchanged. If the language of the query is unknown, it is also returned unchanged.

This transformer is useful when the embedding model is trained on a specific language and the user query
is in a different language.

[source,java]
----
Query query = new Query("Hvad er Danmarks hovedstad?");

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = TranslationQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .targetLanguage("english")
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

==== Query Expansion

A component for expanding the input query into a list of queries, addressing challenges such as poorly formed queries
by providing alternative query formulations, or by breaking down complex problems into simpler sub-queries.

===== MultiQueryExpander

A `MultiQueryExpander` uses a large language model to expand a query into multiple semantically diverse variations
to capture different perspectives, useful for retrieving additional contextual information and increasing the chances
of finding relevant results.

[source,java]
----
MultiQueryExpander queryExpander = MultiQueryExpander.builder()
    .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
    .numberOfQueries(3)
    .build();
List<Query> queries = expander.expand(new Query("How to run a Spring Boot app?"));
----

By default, the `MultiQueryExpander` includes the original query in the list of expanded queries. You can disable this behavior
via the `includeOriginal` method in the builder.

[source,java]
----
MultiQueryExpander queryExpander = MultiQueryExpander.builder()
    .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
    .includeOriginal(false)
    .build();
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

=== Retrieval

Retrieval modules are responsible for querying data systems like vector store and retrieving the most relevant documents.

==== Document Search

Component responsible for retrieving `Documents` from an underlying data source, such as a search engine, a vector store,
a database, or a knowledge graph.

===== VectorStoreDocumentRetriever

A `VectorStoreDocumentRetriever` retrieves documents from a vector store that are semantically similar to the input
query. It supports filtering based on metadata, similarity threshold, and top-k results.

[source,java]
----
DocumentRetriever retriever = VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
    .vectorStore(vectorStore)
    .similarityThreshold(0.73)
    .topK(5)
    .filterExpression(new FilterExpressionBuilder()
        .eq("genre", "fairytale")
        .build())
    .build();
List<Document> documents = retriever.retrieve(new Query("What is the main character of the story?"));
----

The filter expression can be static or dynamic. For dynamic filter expressions, you can pass a `Supplier`.

[source,java]
----
DocumentRetriever retriever = VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
    .vectorStore(vectorStore)
    .filterExpression(() -> new FilterExpressionBuilder()
        .eq("tenant", TenantContextHolder.getTenantIdentifier())
        .build())
    .build();
List<Document> documents = retriever.retrieve(new Query("What are the KPIs for the next semester?"));
----

==== Document Join

A component for combining documents retrieved based on multiple queries and from multiple data sources into
a single collection of documents. As part of the joining process, it can also handle duplicate documents and reciprocal
ranking strategies.

===== ConcatenationDocumentJoiner

A `ConcatenationDocumentJoiner` combines documents retrieved based on multiple queries and from multiple data sources
by concatenating them into a single collection of documents. In case of duplicate documents, the first occurrence is kept.
The score of each document is kept as is.

[source,java]
----
Map<Query, List<List<Document>>> documentsForQuery = ...
DocumentJoiner documentJoiner = new ConcatenationDocumentJoiner();
List<Document> documents = documentJoiner.join(documentsForQuery);
----

=== Post-Retrieval

Post-Retrieval modules are responsible for processing the retrieved documents to achieve the best possible generation results.

==== Document Ranking

A component for ordering and ranking documents based on their relevance to a query to bring the most relevant documents
to the top of the list, addressing challenges such as _lost-in-the-middle_.

Unlike `DocumentSelector`, this component does not remove entire documents from the list, but rather changes
the order/score of the documents in the list. Unlike `DocumentCompressor`, this component does not alter the content
of the documents.

==== Document Selection

A component for removing irrelevant or redundant documents from a list of retrieved documents, addressing challenges
such as _lost-in-the-middle_ and context length restrictions from the model.

Unlike `DocumentRanker`, this component does not change the order/score of the documents in the list, but rather
removes irrelevant or redundant documents. Unlike `DocumentCompressor`, this component does not alter the content
of the documents, but rather removes entire documents.

==== Document Compression

A component for compressing the content of each document to reduce noise and redundancy in the retrieved information,
addressing challenges such as _lost-in-the-middle_ and context length restrictions from the model.

Unlike `DocumentSelector`, this component does not remove entire documents from the list, but rather alters the content
of the documents. Unlike `DocumentRanker`, this component does not change the order/score of the documents in the list.

=== Generation

Generation modules are responsible for generating the final response based on the user query and retrieved documents.

==== Query Augmentation

A component for augmenting an input query with additional data, useful to provide a large language model
with the necessary context to answer the user query.

===== ContextualQueryAugmenter

The `ContextualQueryAugmenter` augments the user query with contextual data from the content of the provided documents.

[source,java]
----
QueryAugmenter queryAugmenter = ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder().build();
----

By default, the `ContextualQueryAugmenter` does not allow the retrieved context to be empty. When that happens,
it instructs the model not to answer the user query.

You can enable the `allowEmptyContext` option to allow the model to generate a response even when the retrieved context is empty.

[source,java]
----
QueryAugmenter queryAugmenter = ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder()
        .allowEmptyContext(true)
        .build();
----

The prompts used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` and `emptyContextPromptTemplate()` methods
available in the builder.

Commit message:

Update document for SearchRequest builder changes

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/retrieval-augmented-generation.adoc, after:

[[rag]]
= Retrieval Augmented Generation

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a technique useful to overcome the limitations of large language models
that struggle with long-form content, factual accuracy, and context-awareness.

Spring AI supports RAG by providing a modular architecture that allows you to build custom RAG flows yourself
or use out-of-the-box RAG flows using the `Advisor` API.

NOTE: Learn more about Retrieval Augmented Generation in the xref:concepts.adoc#concept-rag[concepts] section.

== Advisors

Spring AI provides out-of-the-box support for common RAG flows using the `Advisor` API.

=== QuestionAnswerAdvisor

A vector database stores data that the AI model is unaware of.
When a user question is sent to the AI model, a `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` queries the vector database for documents related to the user question.

The response from the vector database is appended to the user text to provide context for the AI model to generate a response.

Assuming you have already loaded data into a `VectorStore`, you can perform Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) by providing an instance of `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` to the `ChatClient`.

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = ChatClient.builder(chatModel)
        .build().prompt()
        .advisors(new QuestionAnswerAdvisor(vectorStore)
        .user(userText)
        .call()
        .chatResponse();
----

In this example, the `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` will perform a similarity search over all documents in the Vector Database.
To restrict the types of documents that are searched, the `SearchRequest` takes an SQL like filter expression that is portable across all `VectorStores`.

This filter expression can be configured when creating the `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` and hence will always apply to all `ChatClient` requests or it can be provided at runtime per request.

Here is how to create an instance of `QuestionAnswerAdvisor` where the threshold is `0.8` and to return the top `6` reulsts.


[source,java]
----
var qaAdvisor = new QuestionAnswerAdvisor(this.vectorStore,
        SearchRequest.builder().similarityThreshold(0.8d).topK(6).build());
----



==== Dynamic Filter Expressions

Update the `SearchRequest` filter expression at runtime using the `FILTER_EXPRESSION` advisor context parameter:

[source,java]
----
ChatClient chatClient = ChatClient.builder(chatModel)
    .defaultAdvisors(new QuestionAnswerAdvisor(vectorStore, SearchRequest.builder().build()))
    .build();

// Update filter expression at runtime
String content = this.chatClient.prompt()
    .user("Please answer my question XYZ")
    .advisors(a -> a.param(QuestionAnswerAdvisor.FILTER_EXPRESSION, "type == 'Spring'"))
    .call()
    .content();
----

The `FILTER_EXPRESSION` parameter allows you to dynamically filter the search results based on the provided expression.

=== RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor (Incubating)

Spring AI includes a xref:api/retrieval-augmented-generation.adoc#modules[library of RAG modules] that you can use to build your own RAG flows.
The `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` is an experimental `Advisor` providing an out-of-the-box implementation for the most common RAG flows,
based on a modular architecture.

WARNING: The `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` is an experimental feature and is subject to change in future releases.

==== Sequential RAG Flows

===== Naive RAG

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

By default, the `RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor` does not allow the retrieved context to be empty. When that happens,
it instructs the model not to answer the user query. You can allow empty context as follows.

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .queryAugmenter(ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder()
                .allowEmptyContext(true)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

===== Advanced RAG

[source,java]
----
Advisor retrievalAugmentationAdvisor = RetrievalAugmentationAdvisor.builder()
        .queryTransformer(RewriteQueryTransformer.builder()
                .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder.build().mutate())
                .build())
        .documentRetriever(VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
                .similarityThreshold(0.50)
                .vectorStore(vectorStore)
                .build())
        .build();

String answer = chatClient.prompt()
        .advisors(retrievalAugmentationAdvisor)
        .user(question)
        .call()
        .content();
----

[[modules]]
== Modules

Spring AI implements a Modular RAG architecture inspired by the concept of modularity detailed in the paper
"https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21059[Modular RAG: Transforming RAG Systems into LEGO-like Reconfigurable Frameworks]".

WARNING:: Modular RAG is an experimental feature and is subject to change in future releases.

=== Pre-Retrieval

Pre-Retrieval modules are responsible for processing the user query to achieve the best possible retrieval results.

==== Query Transformation

A component for transforming the input query to make it more effective for retrieval tasks, addressing challenges
such as poorly formed queries, ambiguous terms, complex vocabulary, or unsupported languages.

===== CompressionQueryTransformer

A `CompressionQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to compress a conversation history and a follow-up query
into a standalone query that captures the essence of the conversation.

This transformer is useful when the conversation history is long and the follow-up query is related
to the conversation context.

[source,java]
----
Query query = Query.builder()
        .text("And what is its second largest city?")
        .history(new UserMessage("What is the capital of Denmark?"),
                new AssistantMessage("Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark."))
        .build();

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = CompressionQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

===== RewriteQueryTransformer

A `RewriteQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to rewrite a user query to provide better results when
querying a target system, such as a vector store or a web search engine.

This transformer is useful when the user query is verbose, ambiguous, or contains irrelevant information
that may affect the quality of the search results.

[source,java]
----
Query query = new Query("I'm studying machine learning. What is an LLM?");

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = RewriteQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

===== TranslationQueryTransformer

A `TranslationQueryTransformer` uses a large language model to translate a query to a target language that is supported
by the embedding model used to generate the document embeddings. If the query is already in the target language,
it is returned unchanged. If the language of the query is unknown, it is also returned unchanged.

This transformer is useful when the embedding model is trained on a specific language and the user query
is in a different language.

[source,java]
----
Query query = new Query("Hvad er Danmarks hovedstad?");

QueryTransformer queryTransformer = TranslationQueryTransformer.builder()
        .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
        .targetLanguage("english")
        .build();

Query transformedQuery = queryTransformer.transform(query);
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

==== Query Expansion

A component for expanding the input query into a list of queries, addressing challenges such as poorly formed queries
by providing alternative query formulations, or by breaking down complex problems into simpler sub-queries.

===== MultiQueryExpander

A `MultiQueryExpander` uses a large language model to expand a query into multiple semantically diverse variations
to capture different perspectives, useful for retrieving additional contextual information and increasing the chances
of finding relevant results.

[source,java]
----
MultiQueryExpander queryExpander = MultiQueryExpander.builder()
    .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
    .numberOfQueries(3)
    .build();
List<Query> queries = expander.expand(new Query("How to run a Spring Boot app?"));
----

By default, the `MultiQueryExpander` includes the original query in the list of expanded queries. You can disable this behavior
via the `includeOriginal` method in the builder.

[source,java]
----
MultiQueryExpander queryExpander = MultiQueryExpander.builder()
    .chatClientBuilder(chatClientBuilder)
    .includeOriginal(false)
    .build();
----

The prompt used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` method available in the builder.

=== Retrieval

Retrieval modules are responsible for querying data systems like vector store and retrieving the most relevant documents.

==== Document Search

Component responsible for retrieving `Documents` from an underlying data source, such as a search engine, a vector store,
a database, or a knowledge graph.

===== VectorStoreDocumentRetriever

A `VectorStoreDocumentRetriever` retrieves documents from a vector store that are semantically similar to the input
query. It supports filtering based on metadata, similarity threshold, and top-k results.

[source,java]
----
DocumentRetriever retriever = VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
    .vectorStore(vectorStore)
    .similarityThreshold(0.73)
    .topK(5)
    .filterExpression(new FilterExpressionBuilder()
        .eq("genre", "fairytale")
        .build())
    .build();
List<Document> documents = retriever.retrieve(new Query("What is the main character of the story?"));
----

The filter expression can be static or dynamic. For dynamic filter expressions, you can pass a `Supplier`.

[source,java]
----
DocumentRetriever retriever = VectorStoreDocumentRetriever.builder()
    .vectorStore(vectorStore)
    .filterExpression(() -> new FilterExpressionBuilder()
        .eq("tenant", TenantContextHolder.getTenantIdentifier())
        .build())
    .build();
List<Document> documents = retriever.retrieve(new Query("What are the KPIs for the next semester?"));
----

==== Document Join

A component for combining documents retrieved based on multiple queries and from multiple data sources into
a single collection of documents. As part of the joining process, it can also handle duplicate documents and reciprocal
ranking strategies.

===== ConcatenationDocumentJoiner

A `ConcatenationDocumentJoiner` combines documents retrieved based on multiple queries and from multiple data sources
by concatenating them into a single collection of documents. In case of duplicate documents, the first occurrence is kept.
The score of each document is kept as is.

[source,java]
----
Map<Query, List<List<Document>>> documentsForQuery = ...
DocumentJoiner documentJoiner = new ConcatenationDocumentJoiner();
List<Document> documents = documentJoiner.join(documentsForQuery);
----

=== Post-Retrieval

Post-Retrieval modules are responsible for processing the retrieved documents to achieve the best possible generation results.

==== Document Ranking

A component for ordering and ranking documents based on their relevance to a query to bring the most relevant documents
to the top of the list, addressing challenges such as _lost-in-the-middle_.

Unlike `DocumentSelector`, this component does not remove entire documents from the list, but rather changes
the order/score of the documents in the list. Unlike `DocumentCompressor`, this component does not alter the content
of the documents.

==== Document Selection

A component for removing irrelevant or redundant documents from a list of retrieved documents, addressing challenges
such as _lost-in-the-middle_ and context length restrictions from the model.

Unlike `DocumentRanker`, this component does not change the order/score of the documents in the list, but rather
removes irrelevant or redundant documents. Unlike `DocumentCompressor`, this component does not alter the content
of the documents, but rather removes entire documents.

==== Document Compression

A component for compressing the content of each document to reduce noise and redundancy in the retrieved information,
addressing challenges such as _lost-in-the-middle_ and context length restrictions from the model.

Unlike `DocumentSelector`, this component does not remove entire documents from the list, but rather alters the content
of the documents. Unlike `DocumentRanker`, this component does not change the order/score of the documents in the list.

=== Generation

Generation modules are responsible for generating the final response based on the user query and retrieved documents.

==== Query Augmentation

A component for augmenting an input query with additional data, useful to provide a large language model
with the necessary context to answer the user query.

===== ContextualQueryAugmenter

The `ContextualQueryAugmenter` augments the user query with contextual data from the content of the provided documents.

[source,java]
----
QueryAugmenter queryAugmenter = ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder().build();
----

By default, the `ContextualQueryAugmenter` does not allow the retrieved context to be empty. When that happens,
it instructs the model not to answer the user query.

You can enable the `allowEmptyContext` option to allow the model to generate a response even when the retrieved context is empty.

[source,java]
----
QueryAugmenter queryAugmenter = ContextualQueryAugmenter.builder()
        .allowEmptyContext(true)
        .build();
----

The prompts used by this component can be customized via the `promptTemplate()` and `emptyContextPromptTemplate()` methods
available in the builder.
