spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs.adoc, before:

[[vector-databases]]
= Vector Databases

A vector databases is a specialized type of database that plays an essential role in AI applications.

In vector databases, queries differ from traditional relational databases.
Instead of exact matches, they perform similarity searches.
When given a vector as a query, a vector database returns vectors that are "`similar`" to the query vector.
Further details on how this similarity is calculated at a high-level is provided in a xref:api/vectordbs/understand-vectordbs.adoc#vectordbs-similarity[Vector Similarity].

Vector databases are used to integrate your data with AI models.
The first step in their usage is to load your data into a vector database.
Then, when a user query is to be sent to the AI model, a set of similar documents is first retrieved.
These documents then serve as the context for the user's question and are sent to the AI model, along with the user's query.
This technique is known as xref:concepts.adoc#concept-rag[Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)].

The following sections describe the Spring AI interface for using multiple vector database implementations and some high-level sample usage.

The last section is intended to demystify the underlying approach of similarity searching in vector databases.

== API Overview
This section serves as a guide to the `VectorStore` interface and its associated classes within the Spring AI framework.

Spring AI offers an abstracted API for interacting with vector databases through the `VectorStore` interface.

Here is the `VectorStore` interface definition:

```java
public interface VectorStore {

    void add(List<Document> documents);

    Optional<Boolean> delete(List<String> idList);

    List<Document> similaritySearch(String query);

    List<Document> similaritySearch(SearchRequest request);
}
```

and the related `SearchRequest` builder:

```java
public class SearchRequest {

	public final String query;
	private int topK = 4;
	private double similarityThreshold = SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD_ALL;
	private Filter.Expression filterExpression;

	public static SearchRequest query(String query) { return new SearchRequest(query); }

	private SearchRequest(String query) { this.query = query; }

	public SearchRequest withTopK(int topK) {...}
	public SearchRequest withSimilarityThreshold(double threshold) {...}
	public SearchRequest withSimilarityThresholdAll() {...}
	public SearchRequest withFilterExpression(Filter.Expression expression) {...}
	public SearchRequest withFilterExpression(String textExpression) {...}

	public String getQuery() {...}
	public int getTopK() {...}
	public double getSimilarityThreshold() {...}
	public Filter.Expression getFilterExpression() {...}
}

```

To insert data into the vector database, encapsulate it within a `Document` object.
The `Document` class encapsulates content from a data source, such as a PDF or Word document, and includes text represented as a string.
It also contains metadata in the form of key-value pairs, including details such as the filename.

Upon insertion into the vector database, the text content is transformed into a numerical array, or a `List<Double>`, known as vector embeddings, using an embedding model. Embedding models, such as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word2vec[Word2Vec], https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GloVe_(machine_learning)[GLoVE], and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BERT_(language_model)[BERT], or OpenAI's `text-embedding-ada-002`, are used to convert words, sentences, or paragraphs into these vector embeddings.

The vector database's role is to store and facilitate similarity searches for these embeddings. It does not generate the embeddings itself. For creating vector embeddings, the `EmbeddingModel` should be utilized.

The `similaritySearch` methods in the interface allow for retrieving documents similar to a given query string. These methods can be fine-tuned by using the following parameters:

* `k`: An integer that specifies the maximum number of similar documents to return. This is often referred to as a 'top K' search, or 'K nearest neighbors' (KNN).
* `threshold`: A double value ranging from 0 to 1, where values closer to 1 indicate higher similarity. By default, if you set a threshold of 0.75, for instance, only documents with a similarity above this value are returned.
* `Filter.Expression`: A class used for passing a fluent DSL (Domain-Specific Language) expression that functions similarly to a 'where' clause in SQL, but it applies exclusively to the metadata key-value pairs of a `Document`.
* `filterExpression`: An external DSL based on ANTLR4 that accepts filter expressions as strings. For example, with metadata keys like country, year, and `isActive`, you could use an expression such as: `country == 'UK' && year >= 2020 && isActive == true.`

Find more information on the `Filter.Expression` in the <<metadata-filters>> section.

== Available Implementations

These are the available implementations of the `VectorStore` interface:

* xref:api/vectordbs/azure.adoc[Azure Vector Search] - The https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/vector-search-overview[Azure] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/apache-cassandra.adoc[Apache Cassandra] - The https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/cassandra/vector-search/overview.html[Apache Cassandra] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/chroma.adoc[Chroma Vector Store] - The https://www.trychroma.com/[Chroma] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/elasticsearch.adoc[Elasticsearch Vector Store] - The https://www.elastic.co/[Elasticsearch] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/gemfire.adoc[GemFire Vector Store] - The https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/blog/vmware-gemfire-vector-database-extension[GemFire] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/milvus.adoc[Milvus Vector Store] - The https://milvus.io/[Milvus] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/mongodb.adoc[MongoDB Atlas Vector Store] - The https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database[MongoDB Atlas] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/neo4j.adoc[Neo4j Vector Store] - The https://neo4j.com/[Neo4j] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/pgvector.adoc[PgVectorStore] - The https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector[PostgreSQL/PGVector] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/pinecone.adoc[Pinecone Vector Store] - https://www.pinecone.io/[PineCone] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/qdrant.adoc[Qdrant Vector Store] - https://www.qdrant.tech/[Qdrant] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/redis.adoc[Redis Vector Store] - The https://redis.io/[Redis] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/hana.adoc[SAP Hana Vector Store] - The https://news.sap.com/2024/04/sap-hana-cloud-vector-engine-ai-with-business-context/[SAP HANA] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/weaviate.adoc[Weaviate Vector Store] - The https://weaviate.io/[Weaviate] vector store.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vectorstore/SimpleVectorStore.java[SimpleVectorStore] - A simple implementation of persistent vector storage, good for educational purposes.

More implementations may be supported in future releases.

If you have a vector database that needs to be supported by Spring AI, open an issue on GitHub or, even better, submit a pull request with an implementation.

Information on each of the `VectorStore` implementations can be found in the subsections of this chapter.

== Example Usage

To compute the embeddings for a vector database, you need to pick an embedding model that matches the higher-level AI model being used.

For example, with OpenAI's ChatGPT, we use the `OpenAiEmbeddingModel` and a model named `text-embedding-ada-002`.

The Spring Boot starter's auto-configuration for OpenAI makes an implementation of `EmbeddingModel` available in the Spring application context for dependency injection.

The general usage of loading data into a vector store is something you would do in a batch-like job, by first loading data into Spring AI's `Document` class and then calling the `save` method.

Given a `String` reference to a source file that represents a JSON file with data we want to load into the vector database, we use Spring AI's `JsonReader` to load specific fields in the JSON, which splits them up into small pieces and then passes those small pieces to the vector store implementation.
The `VectorStore` implementation computes the embeddings and stores the JSON and the embedding in the vector database:

```java
  @Autowired
  VectorStore vectorStore;

  void load(String sourceFile) {
            JsonReader jsonReader = new JsonReader(new FileSystemResource(sourceFile),
                    "price", "name", "shortDescription", "description", "tags");
            List<Document> documents = jsonReader.get();
            this.vectorStore.add(documents);
  }
```

Later, when a user question is passed into the AI model, a similarity search is done to retrieve similar documents, which are then "'stuffed'" into the prompt as context for the user's question.

```java
   String question = <question from user>
   List<Document> similarDocuments = store.similaritySearch(question);
```

Additional options can be passed into the `similaritySearch` method to define how many documents to retrieve and a threshold of the similarity search.

== Metadata Filters [[metadata-filters]]

This section describes various filters that you can use against the results of a query.

=== Filter String
You can pass in an SQL-like filter expressions as a `String` to one of the `similaritySearch` overloads.

Consider the following examples:

* `"country == 'BG'"`
* `"genre == 'drama' && year >= 2020"`
* `"genre in ['comedy', 'documentary', 'drama']"`

=== Filter.Expression

You can create an instance of `Filter.Expression` with a `FilterExpressionBuilder` that exposes a fluent API.
A simple example is as follows:

[source, java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();
Expression expression = b.eq("country", "BG").build();
----

You can build up sophisticated expressions by using the following operators:

[source, text]
----
EQUALS: '=='
MINUS : '-'
PLUS: '+'
GT: '>'
GE: '>='
LT: '<'
LE: '<='
NE: '!='
----

You can combine expressions by using the following operators:

[source,text]
----
AND: 'AND' | 'and' | '&&';
OR: 'OR' | 'or' | '||';
----

Considering the following example:

[source,java]
----
Expression exp = b.and(b.eq("genre", "drama"), b.gte("year", 2020)).build();
----

You can also use the following operators:

[source,text]
----
IN: 'IN' | 'in';
NIN: 'NIN' | 'nin';
NOT: 'NOT' | 'not';
----

Consider the following example:

[source,java]
----
Expression exp = b.and(b.eq("genre", "drama"), b.gte("year", 2020)).build();
----


== Understanding Vectors

xref:api/vectordbs/understand-vectordbs.adoc[Understanding Vectors]

Commit message:

Add property to initialize schema for vector stores
* Default is fale
* Update docs

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs.adoc, after:

[[vector-databases]]
= Vector Databases

A vector databases is a specialized type of database that plays an essential role in AI applications.

In vector databases, queries differ from traditional relational databases.
Instead of exact matches, they perform similarity searches.
When given a vector as a query, a vector database returns vectors that are "`similar`" to the query vector.
Further details on how this similarity is calculated at a high-level is provided in a xref:api/vectordbs/understand-vectordbs.adoc#vectordbs-similarity[Vector Similarity].

Vector databases are used to integrate your data with AI models.
The first step in their usage is to load your data into a vector database.
Then, when a user query is to be sent to the AI model, a set of similar documents is first retrieved.
These documents then serve as the context for the user's question and are sent to the AI model, along with the user's query.
This technique is known as xref:concepts.adoc#concept-rag[Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)].

The following sections describe the Spring AI interface for using multiple vector database implementations and some high-level sample usage.

The last section is intended to demystify the underlying approach of similarity searching in vector databases.

== API Overview
This section serves as a guide to the `VectorStore` interface and its associated classes within the Spring AI framework.

Spring AI offers an abstracted API for interacting with vector databases through the `VectorStore` interface.

Here is the `VectorStore` interface definition:

```java
public interface VectorStore {

    void add(List<Document> documents);

    Optional<Boolean> delete(List<String> idList);

    List<Document> similaritySearch(String query);

    List<Document> similaritySearch(SearchRequest request);
}
```

and the related `SearchRequest` builder:

```java
public class SearchRequest {

	public final String query;
	private int topK = 4;
	private double similarityThreshold = SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD_ALL;
	private Filter.Expression filterExpression;

	public static SearchRequest query(String query) { return new SearchRequest(query); }

	private SearchRequest(String query) { this.query = query; }

	public SearchRequest withTopK(int topK) {...}
	public SearchRequest withSimilarityThreshold(double threshold) {...}
	public SearchRequest withSimilarityThresholdAll() {...}
	public SearchRequest withFilterExpression(Filter.Expression expression) {...}
	public SearchRequest withFilterExpression(String textExpression) {...}

	public String getQuery() {...}
	public int getTopK() {...}
	public double getSimilarityThreshold() {...}
	public Filter.Expression getFilterExpression() {...}
}

```

To insert data into the vector database, encapsulate it within a `Document` object.
The `Document` class encapsulates content from a data source, such as a PDF or Word document, and includes text represented as a string.
It also contains metadata in the form of key-value pairs, including details such as the filename.

Upon insertion into the vector database, the text content is transformed into a numerical array, or a `List<Double>`, known as vector embeddings, using an embedding model. Embedding models, such as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word2vec[Word2Vec], https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GloVe_(machine_learning)[GLoVE], and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BERT_(language_model)[BERT], or OpenAI's `text-embedding-ada-002`, are used to convert words, sentences, or paragraphs into these vector embeddings.

The vector database's role is to store and facilitate similarity searches for these embeddings. It does not generate the embeddings itself. For creating vector embeddings, the `EmbeddingModel` should be utilized.

The `similaritySearch` methods in the interface allow for retrieving documents similar to a given query string. These methods can be fine-tuned by using the following parameters:

* `k`: An integer that specifies the maximum number of similar documents to return. This is often referred to as a 'top K' search, or 'K nearest neighbors' (KNN).
* `threshold`: A double value ranging from 0 to 1, where values closer to 1 indicate higher similarity. By default, if you set a threshold of 0.75, for instance, only documents with a similarity above this value are returned.
* `Filter.Expression`: A class used for passing a fluent DSL (Domain-Specific Language) expression that functions similarly to a 'where' clause in SQL, but it applies exclusively to the metadata key-value pairs of a `Document`.
* `filterExpression`: An external DSL based on ANTLR4 that accepts filter expressions as strings. For example, with metadata keys like country, year, and `isActive`, you could use an expression such as: `country == 'UK' && year >= 2020 && isActive == true.`

Find more information on the `Filter.Expression` in the <<metadata-filters>> section.

== Schema Initialization

Some vector stores require their backend schema to be initialized before usage.
It will not be initialized for you by default.
You must opt-in, by passing a `boolean` for the appropriate constructor argument or, if using Spring Boot, setting the appropriate `initialize-schema` property to `true` in `application.properties` or `application.yml`.
Check the documentation for the vector store you are using for the specific property name.

== Available Implementations

These are the available implementations of the `VectorStore` interface:

* xref:api/vectordbs/azure.adoc[Azure Vector Search] - The https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/vector-search-overview[Azure] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/apache-cassandra.adoc[Apache Cassandra] - The https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/cassandra/vector-search/overview.html[Apache Cassandra] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/chroma.adoc[Chroma Vector Store] - The https://www.trychroma.com/[Chroma] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/elasticsearch.adoc[Elasticsearch Vector Store] - The https://www.elastic.co/[Elasticsearch] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/gemfire.adoc[GemFire Vector Store] - The https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/blog/vmware-gemfire-vector-database-extension[GemFire] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/milvus.adoc[Milvus Vector Store] - The https://milvus.io/[Milvus] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/mongodb.adoc[MongoDB Atlas Vector Store] - The https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database[MongoDB Atlas] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/neo4j.adoc[Neo4j Vector Store] - The https://neo4j.com/[Neo4j] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/pgvector.adoc[PgVectorStore] - The https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector[PostgreSQL/PGVector] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/pinecone.adoc[Pinecone Vector Store] - https://www.pinecone.io/[PineCone] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/qdrant.adoc[Qdrant Vector Store] - https://www.qdrant.tech/[Qdrant] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/redis.adoc[Redis Vector Store] - The https://redis.io/[Redis] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/hana.adoc[SAP Hana Vector Store] - The https://news.sap.com/2024/04/sap-hana-cloud-vector-engine-ai-with-business-context/[SAP HANA] vector store.
* xref:api/vectordbs/weaviate.adoc[Weaviate Vector Store] - The https://weaviate.io/[Weaviate] vector store.
* link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/spring-ai-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vectorstore/SimpleVectorStore.java[SimpleVectorStore] - A simple implementation of persistent vector storage, good for educational purposes.

More implementations may be supported in future releases.

If you have a vector database that needs to be supported by Spring AI, open an issue on GitHub or, even better, submit a pull request with an implementation.

Information on each of the `VectorStore` implementations can be found in the subsections of this chapter.

== Example Usage

To compute the embeddings for a vector database, you need to pick an embedding model that matches the higher-level AI model being used.

For example, with OpenAI's ChatGPT, we use the `OpenAiEmbeddingModel` and a model named `text-embedding-ada-002`.

The Spring Boot starter's auto-configuration for OpenAI makes an implementation of `EmbeddingModel` available in the Spring application context for dependency injection.

The general usage of loading data into a vector store is something you would do in a batch-like job, by first loading data into Spring AI's `Document` class and then calling the `save` method.

Given a `String` reference to a source file that represents a JSON file with data we want to load into the vector database, we use Spring AI's `JsonReader` to load specific fields in the JSON, which splits them up into small pieces and then passes those small pieces to the vector store implementation.
The `VectorStore` implementation computes the embeddings and stores the JSON and the embedding in the vector database:

```java
  @Autowired
  VectorStore vectorStore;

  void load(String sourceFile) {
            JsonReader jsonReader = new JsonReader(new FileSystemResource(sourceFile),
                    "price", "name", "shortDescription", "description", "tags");
            List<Document> documents = jsonReader.get();
            this.vectorStore.add(documents);
  }
```

Later, when a user question is passed into the AI model, a similarity search is done to retrieve similar documents, which are then "'stuffed'" into the prompt as context for the user's question.

```java
   String question = <question from user>
   List<Document> similarDocuments = store.similaritySearch(question);
```

Additional options can be passed into the `similaritySearch` method to define how many documents to retrieve and a threshold of the similarity search.

== Metadata Filters [[metadata-filters]]

This section describes various filters that you can use against the results of a query.

=== Filter String
You can pass in an SQL-like filter expressions as a `String` to one of the `similaritySearch` overloads.

Consider the following examples:

* `"country == 'BG'"`
* `"genre == 'drama' && year >= 2020"`
* `"genre in ['comedy', 'documentary', 'drama']"`

=== Filter.Expression

You can create an instance of `Filter.Expression` with a `FilterExpressionBuilder` that exposes a fluent API.
A simple example is as follows:

[source, java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();
Expression expression = b.eq("country", "BG").build();
----

You can build up sophisticated expressions by using the following operators:

[source, text]
----
EQUALS: '=='
MINUS : '-'
PLUS: '+'
GT: '>'
GE: '>='
LT: '<'
LE: '<='
NE: '!='
----

You can combine expressions by using the following operators:

[source,text]
----
AND: 'AND' | 'and' | '&&';
OR: 'OR' | 'or' | '||';
----

Considering the following example:

[source,java]
----
Expression exp = b.and(b.eq("genre", "drama"), b.gte("year", 2020)).build();
----

You can also use the following operators:

[source,text]
----
IN: 'IN' | 'in';
NIN: 'NIN' | 'nin';
NOT: 'NOT' | 'not';
----

Consider the following example:

[source,java]
----
Expression exp = b.and(b.eq("genre", "drama"), b.gte("year", 2020)).build();
----


== Understanding Vectors

xref:api/vectordbs/understand-vectordbs.adoc[Understanding Vectors]
