spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/bedrock-cohere-embedding.adoc, before:

= Cohere Embeddings

Provides Bedrock Cohere Embedding model.
Integrate generative AI capabilities into essential apps and workflows that improve business outcomes.

The https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/cohere-command-embed/[AWS Bedrock Cohere Model Page] and https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock User Guide] contains detailed information on how to use the AWS hosted model.

== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Enable Cohere Embedding Support

By default the Cohere model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_COHERE_EMBEDDING_ENABLED=true
----

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,4,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use. | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding` (defined in `BedrockCohereEmbeddingProperties`) is the property prefix that configures the embedding model implementation for Cohere.

[cols="3,4,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Cohere  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.model                | The model id to use. See the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/056b95a00efa5b014a1f488329fbd07a46c02378/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java#L150[CohereEmbeddingModel] for the supported models.  | cohere.embed-multilingual-v3
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.input-type  | Prepends special tokens to differentiate each type from one another. You should not mix different types together, except when mixing types for search and retrieval. In this case, embed your corpus with the search_document type and embedded queries with type search_query type.  | SEARCH_DOCUMENT
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.truncate  | Specifies how the API handles inputs longer than the maximum token length. If you specify LEFT or RIGHT, the model discards the input until the remaining input is exactly the maximum input token length for the model.  | NONE
|====

Look at the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/056b95a00efa5b014a1f488329fbd07a46c02378/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java#L150[CohereEmbeddingModel] for other model IDs.
Supported values are: `cohere.embed-multilingual-v3` and `cohere.embed-english-v3`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as `input-type` or `truncate`.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request-specific, options to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.
For example to override the default input type for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.builder()
        	.withInputType(InputType.SEARCH_DOCUMENT)
        .build()));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Cohere Embedding model:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.input-type=search-document
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel] implements the `EmbeddingModel` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Cohere service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel] and use it for text embeddings:

[source,java]
----
var cohereEmbeddingApi =new CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi(
		CohereEmbeddingModel.COHERE_EMBED_MULTILINGUAL_V1.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(), Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());


var embeddingModel = new BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel(this.cohereEmbeddingApi);

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));
----

== Low-level CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java[CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi] provides is lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-cohere-command.html[Cohere Command models].

Following class diagram illustrates the CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi interface and building blocks:

image::bedrock/bedrock-cohere-embedding-low-level-api.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

The CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi supports the `cohere.embed-english-v3` and `cohere.embed-multilingual-v3` models for single and batch embedding computation.

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi api = new CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi(
		CohereEmbeddingModel.COHERE_EMBED_MULTILINGUAL_V1.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(),
		Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());

CohereEmbeddingRequest request = new CohereEmbeddingRequest(
		List.of("I like to eat apples", "I like to eat oranges"),
		CohereEmbeddingRequest.InputType.search_document,
		CohereEmbeddingRequest.Truncate.NONE);

CohereEmbeddingResponse response = this.api.embedding(this.request);
----

Commit message:

Add truncation support for Cohere embeddings
Fixes: #1753

https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/1753

- Add character-based truncation (max 2048 chars) for Cohere embedding requests
- Support both START and END truncation strategies
- Add unit tests verifying truncation behavior for both strategies

Truncation is applied before sending requests to Bedrock API to avoid
ValidationException when text exceeds maximum length. The END strategy
(default) keeps the first 2048 characters while START keeps the last
2048 characters.

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/bedrock-cohere-embedding.adoc, after:

= Cohere Embeddings

Provides Bedrock Cohere Embedding model.
Integrate generative AI capabilities into essential apps and workflows that improve business outcomes.

The https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/cohere-command-embed/[AWS Bedrock Cohere Model Page] and https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/what-is-bedrock.html[Amazon Bedrock User Guide] contains detailed information on how to use the AWS hosted model.

== Prerequisites

Refer to the xref:api/bedrock.adoc[Spring AI documentation on Amazon Bedrock] for setting up API access.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Spring Milestone and Snapshot repositories.   Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Enable Cohere Embedding Support

By default the Cohere model is disabled.
To enable it set the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled` property to `true`.
Exporting environment variable is one way to set this configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_BEDROCK_COHERE_EMBEDDING_ENABLED=true
----

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.aws` is the property prefix to configure the connection to AWS Bedrock.

[cols="3,4,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region     | AWS region to use. | us-east-1
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key | AWS access key.  | -
| spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key | AWS secret key.  | -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding` (defined in `BedrockCohereEmbeddingProperties`) is the property prefix that configures the embedding model implementation for Cohere.

[cols="3,4,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled              | Enable or disable support for Cohere  | false
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.model                | The model id to use. See the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/056b95a00efa5b014a1f488329fbd07a46c02378/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java#L150[CohereEmbeddingModel] for the supported models.  | cohere.embed-multilingual-v3
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.input-type  | Prepends special tokens to differentiate each type from one another. You should not mix different types together, except when mixing types for search and retrieval. In this case, embed your corpus with the search_document type and embedded queries with type search_query type.  | SEARCH_DOCUMENT
| spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.truncate  | Specifies how the API handles inputs longer than the maximum token length. If you specify LEFT or RIGHT, the model discards the input until the remaining input is exactly the maximum input token length for the model.  | NONE
|====

NOTE: When accessing Cohere via Amazon Bedrock, the functionality of truncating is not available.  This is an issue with Amazon Bedrock.   The Spring AI class `BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel` will truncate to 2048 character length, which is the maximum supported by the model.

Look at the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/056b95a00efa5b014a1f488329fbd07a46c02378/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java#L150[CohereEmbeddingModel] for other model IDs.
Supported values are: `cohere.embed-multilingual-v3` and `cohere.embed-english-v3`.
Model ID values can also be found in the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-ids-arns.html[AWS Bedrock documentation for base model IDs].

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as `input-type` or `truncate`.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.*` properties.

At runtime you can override the default options by adding new, request-specific, options to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.
For example to override the default input type for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        BedrockCohereEmbeddingOptions.builder()
        	.withInputType(InputType.SEARCH_DOCUMENT)
        .build()));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-bedrock-ai-spring-boot-starter` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the Cohere Embedding model:

[source]
----
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.region=eu-central-1
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.access-key=${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
spring.ai.bedrock.aws.secret-key=${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}

spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.enabled=true
spring.ai.bedrock.cohere.embedding.options.input-type=search-document
----

TIP: replace the `regions`, `access-key` and `secret-key` with your AWS credentials.

This will create a `BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel] implements the `EmbeddingModel` and uses the <<low-level-api>> to connect to the Bedrock Cohere service.

Add the `spring-ai-bedrock` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-bedrock</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-bedrock'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel.java[BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel] and use it for text embeddings:

[source,java]
----
var cohereEmbeddingApi =new CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi(
		CohereEmbeddingModel.COHERE_EMBED_MULTILINGUAL_V1.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(), Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());


var embeddingModel = new BedrockCohereEmbeddingModel(this.cohereEmbeddingApi);

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));
----

== Low-level CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi Client [[low-level-api]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-bedrock/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/bedrock/cohere/api/CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi.java[CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi] provides is lightweight Java client on top of AWS Bedrock https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-parameters-cohere-command.html[Cohere Command models].

Following class diagram illustrates the CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi interface and building blocks:

image::bedrock/bedrock-cohere-embedding-low-level-api.jpg[align="center", width="800px"]

The CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi supports the `cohere.embed-english-v3` and `cohere.embed-multilingual-v3` models for single and batch embedding computation.

Here is a simple snippet how to use the api programmatically:

[source,java]
----
CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi api = new CohereEmbeddingBedrockApi(
		CohereEmbeddingModel.COHERE_EMBED_MULTILINGUAL_V1.id(),
		EnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.create(),
		Region.US_EAST_1.id(), new ObjectMapper());

CohereEmbeddingRequest request = new CohereEmbeddingRequest(
		List.of("I like to eat apples", "I like to eat oranges"),
		CohereEmbeddingRequest.InputType.search_document,
		CohereEmbeddingRequest.Truncate.NONE);

CohereEmbeddingResponse response = this.api.embedding(this.request);
----
