spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/minimax-embeddings.adoc, before:

= MiniMax Chat

Spring AI supports the various AI language models from MiniMax. You can interact with MiniMax language models and create a multilingual conversational assistant based on MiniMax models.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with MiniMax to access MiniMax language models.

Create an account at https://www.minimaxi.com/login[MiniMax registration page] and generate the token on the https://www.minimaxi.com/user-center/basic-information/interface-key[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.minimax.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from https://www.minimaxi.com/user-center/basic-information/interface-key[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_MINIMAX_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.



== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure MiniMax Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-minimax</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-minimax'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the MiniMax Embedding model.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.minimax` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to MiniMax.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.minimax.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.minimax.chat
| spring.ai.minimax.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.minimax.embedding` is property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for MiniMax.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.enabled | Enable MiniMax embedding model.  | true
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.minimax.base-url to provide embedding specific url | -
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.api-key    | Optional overrides the spring.ai.minimax.api-key to provide embedding specific api-key  | -
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options.model      | The model to use      | embo-01
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.minimax.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.api-key` for the `ChatModel` and `EmbeddingModel` implementations.
The `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
Similarly, the `spring.ai.minimax.chat.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.chat.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different MiniMax accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-minimax/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/minimax/MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.java[MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.java] provides the MiniMax configurations, such as the model to use and etc.

The default options can be configured using the `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options` properties as well.

At start-time use the `MiniMaxEmbeddingModel` constructor to set the  default options used for all embedding requests.
At run-time you can override the default options, using a `MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions` instance as part of your `EmbeddingRequest`.

For example to override the default model name for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.builder()
            .model("Different-Embedding-Model-Deployment-Name")
        .build()));
----

== Sample Controller

This will create a `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingC` implementation.

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.minimax.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options.model=embo-01
----

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you are not using Spring Boot, you can manually configure the MiniMax Embedding Model.
For this add the `spring-ai-minimax` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-minimax</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-minimax'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

NOTE: The `spring-ai-minimax` dependency provides access also to the `MiniMaxChatModel`.
For more information about the `MiniMaxChatModel refer to the link:../chat/minimax-chat.html[MiniMax Chat Client] section.

Next, create an `MiniMaxEmbeddingModel` instance and use it to compute the similarity between two input texts:

[source,java]
----
var miniMaxApi = new MiniMaxApi(System.getenv("MINIMAX_API_KEY"));

var embeddingModel = new MiniMaxEmbeddingModel(minimaxApi, MetadataMode.EMBED,
MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.builder().model("embo-01").build());

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));
----

The `MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions` provides the configuration information for the embedding requests.
The options class offers a `builder()` for easy options creation.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/minimax-embeddings.adoc, after:

= MiniMax Chat

Spring AI supports the various AI language models from MiniMax. You can interact with MiniMax language models and create a multilingual conversational assistant based on MiniMax models.

== Prerequisites

You will need to create an API with MiniMax to access MiniMax language models.

Create an account at https://www.minimaxi.com/login[MiniMax registration page] and generate the token on the https://www.minimaxi.com/user-center/basic-information/interface-key[API Keys page].
The Spring AI project defines a configuration property named `spring.ai.minimax.api-key` that you should set to the value of the `API Key` obtained from https://www.minimaxi.com/user-center/basic-information/interface-key[API Keys page].
Exporting an environment variable is one way to set that configuration property:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_AI_MINIMAX_API_KEY=<INSERT KEY HERE>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.



== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Azure MiniMax Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-minimax</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-minimax'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

==== Retry Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.retry` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the retry mechanism for the MiniMax Embedding model.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.retry.max-attempts   | Maximum number of retry attempts. |  10
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.initial-interval | Initial sleep duration for the exponential backoff policy. |  2 sec.
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.multiplier | Backoff interval multiplier. |  5
| spring.ai.retry.backoff.max-interval | Maximum backoff duration. |  3 min.
| spring.ai.retry.on-client-errors | If false, throw a NonTransientAiException, and do not attempt retry for `4xx` client error codes | false
| spring.ai.retry.exclude-on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should not trigger a retry (e.g. to throw NonTransientAiException). | empty
| spring.ai.retry.on-http-codes | List of HTTP status codes that should trigger a retry (e.g. to throw TransientAiException). | empty
|====

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.minimax` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to MiniMax.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.minimax.base-url   | The URL to connect to |  https://api.minimax.chat
| spring.ai.minimax.api-key    | The API Key           |  -
|====

==== Configuration Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.embedding=minimax (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.embedding=none (or any value which doesn't match minimax)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====


The prefix `spring.ai.minimax.embedding` is property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for MiniMax.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable MiniMax embedding model.  | true
| spring.ai.model.embedding | Enable MiniMax embedding model.  | minimax
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.base-url   | Optional overrides the spring.ai.minimax.base-url to provide embedding specific url | -
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.api-key    | Optional overrides the spring.ai.minimax.api-key to provide embedding specific api-key  | -
| spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options.model      | The model to use      | embo-01
|====

NOTE: You can override the common `spring.ai.minimax.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.api-key` for the `ChatModel` and `EmbeddingModel` implementations.
The `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
Similarly, the `spring.ai.minimax.chat.base-url` and `spring.ai.minimax.chat.api-key` properties if set take precedence over the common properties.
This is useful if you want to use different MiniMax accounts for different models and different model endpoints.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-minimax/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/minimax/MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.java[MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.java] provides the MiniMax configurations, such as the model to use and etc.

The default options can be configured using the `spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options` properties as well.

At start-time use the `MiniMaxEmbeddingModel` constructor to set the  default options used for all embedding requests.
At run-time you can override the default options, using a `MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions` instance as part of your `EmbeddingRequest`.

For example to override the default model name for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.builder()
            .model("Different-Embedding-Model-Deployment-Name")
        .build()));
----

== Sample Controller

This will create a `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingC` implementation.

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.minimax.api-key=YOUR_API_KEY
spring.ai.minimax.embedding.options.model=embo-01
----

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you are not using Spring Boot, you can manually configure the MiniMax Embedding Model.
For this add the `spring-ai-minimax` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-minimax</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-minimax'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

NOTE: The `spring-ai-minimax` dependency provides access also to the `MiniMaxChatModel`.
For more information about the `MiniMaxChatModel refer to the link:../chat/minimax-chat.html[MiniMax Chat Client] section.

Next, create an `MiniMaxEmbeddingModel` instance and use it to compute the similarity between two input texts:

[source,java]
----
var miniMaxApi = new MiniMaxApi(System.getenv("MINIMAX_API_KEY"));

var embeddingModel = new MiniMaxEmbeddingModel(minimaxApi, MetadataMode.EMBED,
MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions.builder().model("embo-01").build());

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));
----

The `MiniMaxEmbeddingOptions` provides the configuration information for the embedding requests.
The options class offers a `builder()` for easy options creation.
