spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/oci-genai-embeddings.adoc, before:

= Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GenAI Embeddings

https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/generative-ai/generative-ai-service/[OCI GenAI Service] offers text embedding with on-demand models, or dedicated AI clusters.

The https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/embed-models.htm[OCI Embedding Models Page] and https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/use-playground-embed.htm[OCI Text Embeddings Page] provide detailed information about using and hosting embedding models on OCI.

== Prerequisites

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OCI GenAI Embedding Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to OCI GenAI.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType |  The type of authentication to use when authenticating to OCI. May be `file`, `instance-principal`, `workload-identity`, or `simple`.  | file
| spring.ai.oci.genai.region | OCI service region. | us-chicago-1
| spring.ai.oci.genai.tenantId | OCI tenant OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.userId | OCI user OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.fingerprint | Private key fingerprint, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.privateKey | Private key content, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.passPhrase | Optional private key passphrase, used when authenticating with `simple` auth and a passphrase protected private key. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.file | Path to OCI config file. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | <user's home directory>/.oci/config
| spring.ai.oci.genai.profile | OCI profile name. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | DEFAULT
| spring.ai.oci.genai.endpoint | Optional OCI GenAI endpoint. | -

|====


The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding` is the property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for OCI GenAI

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.enabled | Enable OCI GenAI embedding model.  | true
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.compartment | Model compartment OCID.    | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.servingMode | The model serving mode to be used. May be `on-demand`, or `dedicated`.  | on-demand
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.truncate | How to truncate text if it overruns the embedding context. May be `START`, or `END`.  | END
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.model | The model or model endpoint used for embeddings. | -
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The `OCIEmbeddingOptions` provides the configuration information for the embedding requests.
The `OCIEmbeddingOptions` offers a builder to create the options.

At start time use the `OCIEmbeddingOptions` constructor to set the  default options used for all embedding requests.
At run-time you can override the default options, by passing a `OCIEmbeddingOptions` instance with your to the  `EmbeddingRequest` request.

For example to override the default model name for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        OCIEmbeddingOptions.builder()
            .model("my-other-embedding-model")
            .build()
));
----


== Sample Code

This will create a `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingModel` implementation.

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.model=<your model>
spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.compartment=<your model compartment>
----

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you prefer not to use the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OCIEmbeddingModel` in your application.
For this add the `spring-oci-genai-openai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-oci-genai-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-oci-genai-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an `OCIEmbeddingModel` instance and use it to compute the similarity between two input texts:

[source,java]
----
final String EMBEDDING_MODEL = "cohere.embed-english-light-v2.0";
final String CONFIG_FILE = Paths.get(System.getProperty("user.home"), ".oci", "config").toString();
final String PROFILE = "DEFAULT";
final String REGION = "us-chicago-1";
final String COMPARTMENT_ID = System.getenv("OCI_COMPARTMENT_ID");

var authProvider = new ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider(
		this.CONFIG_FILE, this.PROFILE);
var aiClient = GenerativeAiInferenceClient.builder()
    .region(Region.valueOf(this.REGION))
    .build(this.authProvider);
var options = OCIEmbeddingOptions.builder()
    .model(this.EMBEDDING_MODEL)
    .compartment(this.COMPARTMENT_ID)
    .servingMode("on-demand")
    .build();
var embeddingModel = new OCIEmbeddingModel(this.aiClient, this.options);
List<Double> embedding = this.embeddingModel.embed(new Document("How many provinces are in Canada?"));
----

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/oci-genai-embeddings.adoc, after:

= Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GenAI Embeddings

https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/generative-ai/generative-ai-service/[OCI GenAI Service] offers text embedding with on-demand models, or dedicated AI clusters.

The https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/embed-models.htm[OCI Embedding Models Page] and https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/use-playground-embed.htm[OCI Text Embeddings Page] provide detailed information about using and hosting embedding models on OCI.

== Prerequisites

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OCI GenAI Embedding Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to OCI GenAI.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType |  The type of authentication to use when authenticating to OCI. May be `file`, `instance-principal`, `workload-identity`, or `simple`.  | file
| spring.ai.oci.genai.region | OCI service region. | us-chicago-1
| spring.ai.oci.genai.tenantId | OCI tenant OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.userId | OCI user OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.fingerprint | Private key fingerprint, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.privateKey | Private key content, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.passPhrase | Optional private key passphrase, used when authenticating with `simple` auth and a passphrase protected private key. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.file | Path to OCI config file. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | <user's home directory>/.oci/config
| spring.ai.oci.genai.profile | OCI profile name. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | DEFAULT
| spring.ai.oci.genai.endpoint | Optional OCI GenAI endpoint. | -

|====

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.embedding=oci-genai (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.embedding=none (or any value which doesn't match oci-genai)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding` is the property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for OCI GenAI

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable OCI GenAI embedding model.  | true
| spring.ai.model.embedding | Enable OCI GenAI embedding model.  | oci-genai
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.compartment | Model compartment OCID.    | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.servingMode | The model serving mode to be used. May be `on-demand`, or `dedicated`.  | on-demand
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.truncate | How to truncate text if it overruns the embedding context. May be `START`, or `END`.  | END
| spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.model | The model or model endpoint used for embeddings. | -
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<embedding-options>> to the `EmbeddingRequest` call.

== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The `OCIEmbeddingOptions` provides the configuration information for the embedding requests.
The `OCIEmbeddingOptions` offers a builder to create the options.

At start time use the `OCIEmbeddingOptions` constructor to set the  default options used for all embedding requests.
At run-time you can override the default options, by passing a `OCIEmbeddingOptions` instance with your to the  `EmbeddingRequest` request.

For example to override the default model name for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        OCIEmbeddingOptions.builder()
            .model("my-other-embedding-model")
            .build()
));
----


== Sample Code

This will create a `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingModel` implementation.

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.model=<your model>
spring.ai.oci.genai.embedding.compartment=<your model compartment>
----

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public Map embed(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(message));
        return Map.of("embedding", embeddingResponse);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration

If you prefer not to use the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the `OCIEmbeddingModel` in your application.
For this add the `spring-oci-genai-openai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-oci-genai-openai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-oci-genai-openai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an `OCIEmbeddingModel` instance and use it to compute the similarity between two input texts:

[source,java]
----
final String EMBEDDING_MODEL = "cohere.embed-english-light-v2.0";
final String CONFIG_FILE = Paths.get(System.getProperty("user.home"), ".oci", "config").toString();
final String PROFILE = "DEFAULT";
final String REGION = "us-chicago-1";
final String COMPARTMENT_ID = System.getenv("OCI_COMPARTMENT_ID");

var authProvider = new ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider(
		this.CONFIG_FILE, this.PROFILE);
var aiClient = GenerativeAiInferenceClient.builder()
    .region(Region.valueOf(this.REGION))
    .build(this.authProvider);
var options = OCIEmbeddingOptions.builder()
    .model(this.EMBEDDING_MODEL)
    .compartment(this.COMPARTMENT_ID)
    .servingMode("on-demand")
    .build();
var embeddingModel = new OCIEmbeddingModel(this.aiClient, this.options);
List<Double> embedding = this.embeddingModel.embed(new Document("How many provinces are in Canada?"));
----
