spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/vertexai-embeddings-multimodal.adoc, before:

= Google VertexAI Multimodal Embeddings

NOTE: EXPERIMENTAL. Used for experimental purposes only. Not compatible yet with the `VectorStores`.

Vertex AI supports two types of embeddings models, text and multimodal.
This document describes how to create a multimodal embedding using the Vertex AI link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/embeddings/get-multimodal-embeddings[Multimodal embeddings API].

The multimodal embeddings model generates 1408-dimension vectors based on the input you provide, which can include a combination of image, text, and video data. 
The embedding vectors can then be used for subsequent tasks like image classification or video content moderation.

The image embedding vector and text embedding vector are in the same semantic space with the same dimensionality. 
Consequently, these vectors can be used interchangeably for use cases like searching image by text, or searching video by image.

NOTE: The VertexAI Multimodal API imposes the link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/embeddings/get-multimodal-embeddings#api-limits[following limits].

TIP: For text-only embedding use cases, we recommend using the xref:api/embeddings/vertexai-embeddings-text.adoc[Vertex AI text-embeddings model] instead. 

== Prerequisites

- Install the link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[gcloud] CLI, appropriate for you OS.
- Authenticate by running the following command. 
Replace `PROJECT_ID` with your Google Cloud project ID and `ACCOUNT` with your Google Cloud username.

[source]
----
gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID> &&
gcloud auth application-default login <ACCOUNT>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-vertex-ai-embedding</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-vertex-ai-embedding'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI Embedding API.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.project-id   |  Google Cloud Platform project ID |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.location   | Region |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.apiEndpoint   | Vertex AI Embedding API endpoint. |  -

|====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal` is the property prefix that lets you configure the embedding model implementation for VertexAI Multimodal Embedding.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.enabled | Enable Vertex AI Embedding API model. | true
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.model | You can get multimodal embeddings by using the following model: | multimodalembedding@001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.dimensions | Specify lower-dimension embeddings. By default, an embedding request returns a 1408 float vector for a data type. You can also specify lower-dimension embeddings (128, 256, or 512 float vectors) for text and image data.  | 1408
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-start-offset-sec | The start offset of the video segment in seconds. If not specified, it's calculated with max(0, endOffsetSec - 120).  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-end-offset-sec | The end offset of the video segment in seconds. If not specified, it's calculated with min(video length, startOffSec + 120). If both startOffSec and endOffSec are specified, endOffsetSec is adjusted to min(startOffsetSec+120, endOffsetSec).  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-interval-sec | The interval of the video the embedding will be generated. The minimum value for interval_sec is 4.
If the interval is less than 4, an InvalidArgumentError is returned. There are no limitations on the maximum value
of the interval. However, if the interval is larger than min(video length, 120s), it impacts the quality of the generated embeddings. Default value: 16.  | -
|====

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/embedding/VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel.java[VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel] implements the `DocumentEmbeddingModel`.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel` and use it for embeddings generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiEmbeddingConnectionDetails connectionDetails = 
    VertexAiEmbeddingConnectionDetails.builder()
        .projectId(System.getenv(<VERTEX_AI_GEMINI_PROJECT_ID>))
        .location(System.getenv(<VERTEX_AI_GEMINI_LOCATION>))
        .build();

VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions options = VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions.builder()
    .model(VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions.DEFAULT_MODEL_NAME)
    .build();

var embeddingModel = new VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel(this.connectionDetails, this.options);

Media imageMedial = new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, new ClassPathResource("/test.image.png"));
Media videoMedial = new Media(new MimeType("video", "mp4"), new ClassPathResource("/test.video.mp4"));

var document = new Document("Explain what do you see on this video?", List.of(this.imageMedial, this.videoMedial), Map.of());

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));

DocumentEmbeddingRequest embeddingRequest = new DocumentEmbeddingRequest(List.of(this.document),
        EmbeddingOptions.EMPTY);

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = multiModelEmbeddingModel.call(this.embeddingRequest);

assertThat(embeddingResponse.getResults()).hasSize(3);
----

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/vertexai-embeddings-multimodal.adoc, after:

= Google VertexAI Multimodal Embeddings

NOTE: EXPERIMENTAL. Used for experimental purposes only. Not compatible yet with the `VectorStores`.

Vertex AI supports two types of embeddings models, text and multimodal.
This document describes how to create a multimodal embedding using the Vertex AI link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/embeddings/get-multimodal-embeddings[Multimodal embeddings API].

The multimodal embeddings model generates 1408-dimension vectors based on the input you provide, which can include a combination of image, text, and video data. 
The embedding vectors can then be used for subsequent tasks like image classification or video content moderation.

The image embedding vector and text embedding vector are in the same semantic space with the same dimensionality. 
Consequently, these vectors can be used interchangeably for use cases like searching image by text, or searching video by image.

NOTE: The VertexAI Multimodal API imposes the link:https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/embeddings/get-multimodal-embeddings#api-limits[following limits].

TIP: For text-only embedding use cases, we recommend using the xref:api/embeddings/vertexai-embeddings-text.adoc[Vertex AI text-embeddings model] instead. 

== Prerequisites

- Install the link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[gcloud] CLI, appropriate for you OS.
- Authenticate by running the following command. 
Replace `PROJECT_ID` with your Google Cloud project ID and `ACCOUNT` with your Google Cloud username.

[source]
----
gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID> &&
gcloud auth application-default login <ACCOUNT>
----

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the VertexAI Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-vertex-ai-embedding</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-vertex-ai-embedding'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to VertexAI Embedding API.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.project-id   |  Google Cloud Platform project ID |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.location   | Region |  -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.apiEndpoint   | Vertex AI Embedding API endpoint. |  -

|====

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.embedding.multimodal=vertexai (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.embedding.multimodal=none (or any value which doesn't match vertexai)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal` is the property prefix that lets you configure the embedding model implementation for VertexAI Multimodal Embedding.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.enabled (Removed and no longer valid) | Enable Vertex AI Embedding API model. | true
| spring.ai.model.embedding.multimodal=vertexai | Enable Vertex AI Embedding API model. | vertexai
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.model | You can get multimodal embeddings by using the following model: | multimodalembedding@001
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.dimensions | Specify lower-dimension embeddings. By default, an embedding request returns a 1408 float vector for a data type. You can also specify lower-dimension embeddings (128, 256, or 512 float vectors) for text and image data.  | 1408
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-start-offset-sec | The start offset of the video segment in seconds. If not specified, it's calculated with max(0, endOffsetSec - 120).  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-end-offset-sec | The end offset of the video segment in seconds. If not specified, it's calculated with min(video length, startOffSec + 120). If both startOffSec and endOffSec are specified, endOffsetSec is adjusted to min(startOffsetSec+120, endOffsetSec).  | -
| spring.ai.vertex.ai.embedding.multimodal.options.video-interval-sec | The interval of the video the embedding will be generated. The minimum value for interval_sec is 4.
If the interval is less than 4, an InvalidArgumentError is returned. There are no limitations on the maximum value
of the interval. However, if the interval is larger than min(video length, 120s), it impacts the quality of the generated embeddings. Default value: 16.  | -
|====

== Manual Configuration

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/vertexai/embedding/VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel.java[VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel] implements the `DocumentEmbeddingModel`.

Add the `spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-vertex-ai-embedding'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel` and use it for embeddings generations:

[source,java]
----
VertexAiEmbeddingConnectionDetails connectionDetails = 
    VertexAiEmbeddingConnectionDetails.builder()
        .projectId(System.getenv(<VERTEX_AI_GEMINI_PROJECT_ID>))
        .location(System.getenv(<VERTEX_AI_GEMINI_LOCATION>))
        .build();

VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions options = VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions.builder()
    .model(VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingOptions.DEFAULT_MODEL_NAME)
    .build();

var embeddingModel = new VertexAiMultimodalEmbeddingModel(this.connectionDetails, this.options);

Media imageMedial = new Media(MimeTypeUtils.IMAGE_PNG, new ClassPathResource("/test.image.png"));
Media videoMedial = new Media(new MimeType("video", "mp4"), new ClassPathResource("/test.video.mp4"));

var document = new Document("Explain what do you see on this video?", List.of(this.imageMedial, this.videoMedial), Map.of());

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = this.embeddingModel
	.embedForResponse(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"));

DocumentEmbeddingRequest embeddingRequest = new DocumentEmbeddingRequest(List.of(this.document),
        EmbeddingOptions.EMPTY);

EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = multiModelEmbeddingModel.call(this.embeddingRequest);

assertThat(embeddingResponse.getResults()).hasSize(3);
----
