spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/watsonx-ai-embeddings.adoc, before:

= watsonx.ai Embeddings

With https://www.ibm.com/products/watsonx-ai[Watsonx.ai] you can run various Large Language Models (LLMs) and generate embeddings from them.
Spring AI supports the Watsonx.ai text embeddings with `WatsonxAiEmbeddingModel`.

An embedding is a vector (list) of floating point numbers.
The distance between two vectors measures their relatedness.
Small distances suggest high relatedness and large distances suggest low relatedness.

== Prerequisites

You first need to have a SaaS instance of watsonx.ai (as well as an IBM Cloud account).

Refer to https://eu-de.dataplatform.cloud.ibm.com/registration/stepone?context=wx&preselect_region=true[free-trial] to try watsonx.ai for free

TIP: More info can be found https://www.ibm.com/products/watsonx-ai/info/trial[here]

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Watsonx.ai Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
   <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-watsonx-ai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-watsonx-ai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

The `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options.*` properties are used to configure the default options used for all embedding requests.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.watsonx.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to watsonx.ai.

[cols="4,3,3", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.base-url             | The URL to connect to             |  https://us-south.ml.cloud.ibm.com
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding-endpoint   | The text endpoint                 |  ml/v1/text/embeddings?version=2023-05-29
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.project-id           | The project ID                    |  -
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.iam-token            | The IBM Cloud account IAM token   |  -
|====

The prefix `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options` is the property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for Watsonx.ai.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding.enabled       | Enable Watsonx.ai embedding model | true
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding.options.model | The embedding model to be used    | ibm/slate-30m-english-rtrvr
|====


== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-watsonx/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/watsonx/api/WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.java[WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.java] provides the Watsonx.ai configurations, such as the model to use.

The default options can be configured using the `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options` properties as well.


[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.create()
            .withModel("Different-Embedding-Model-Deployment-Name"))
);
----

== Sample Controller

This will create an `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingModel` implementation.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public ResponseEntity<Embedding> embedding(@RequestParam String text) {
        EmbeddingResponse response = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(text));
        return ResponseEntity.ok(response.getResult());
    }
}
----

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/embeddings/watsonx-ai-embeddings.adoc, after:

= watsonx.ai Embeddings

With https://www.ibm.com/products/watsonx-ai[Watsonx.ai] you can run various Large Language Models (LLMs) and generate embeddings from them.
Spring AI supports the Watsonx.ai text embeddings with `WatsonxAiEmbeddingModel`.

An embedding is a vector (list) of floating point numbers.
The distance between two vectors measures their relatedness.
Small distances suggest high relatedness and large distances suggest low relatedness.

== Prerequisites

You first need to have a SaaS instance of watsonx.ai (as well as an IBM Cloud account).

Refer to https://eu-de.dataplatform.cloud.ibm.com/registration/stepone?context=wx&preselect_region=true[free-trial] to try watsonx.ai for free

TIP: More info can be found https://www.ibm.com/products/watsonx-ai/info/trial[here]

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.


== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the Watsonx.ai Embedding Model.
To enable it add the following dependency to your Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
   <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-watsonx-ai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-watsonx-ai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

The `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options.*` properties are used to configure the default options used for all embedding requests.

=== Embedding Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.watsonx.ai` is used as the property prefix that lets you connect to watsonx.ai.

[cols="4,3,3", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.base-url             | The URL to connect to             |  https://us-south.ml.cloud.ibm.com
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding-endpoint   | The text endpoint                 |  ml/v1/text/embeddings?version=2023-05-29
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.project-id           | The project ID                    |  -
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.iam-token            | The IBM Cloud account IAM token   |  -
|====

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the embedding auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.embedding`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.embedding=watsonx (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.embedding=none (or any value which doesn't match watsonx)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options` is the property prefix that configures the `EmbeddingModel` implementation for Watsonx.ai.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding.enabled (Removed and no longer valid)      | Enable Watsonx.ai embedding model | true
| spring.ai.model.embedding       | Enable Watsonx.ai embedding model | watsonx
| spring.ai.watsonx.ai.embedding.options.model | The embedding model to be used    | ibm/slate-30m-english-rtrvr
|====


== Runtime Options [[embedding-options]]

The https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-watsonx/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/watsonx/api/WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.java[WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.java] provides the Watsonx.ai configurations, such as the model to use.

The default options can be configured using the `spring.ai.watsonx.embedding.options` properties as well.


[source,java]
----
EmbeddingResponse embeddingResponse = embeddingModel.call(
    new EmbeddingRequest(List.of("Hello World", "World is big and salvation is near"),
        WatsonxAiEmbeddingOptions.create()
            .withModel("Different-Embedding-Model-Deployment-Name"))
);
----

== Sample Controller

This will create an `EmbeddingModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the `EmbeddingModel` implementation.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class EmbeddingController {

    private final EmbeddingModel embeddingModel;

    @Autowired
    public EmbeddingController(EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
        this.embeddingModel = embeddingModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/embedding")
    public ResponseEntity<Embedding> embedding(@RequestParam String text) {
        EmbeddingResponse response = this.embeddingModel.embedForResponse(List.of(text));
        return ResponseEntity.ok(response.getResult());
    }
}
----
