spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/oci-genai/cohere-chat.adoc, before:

= OCI GenAI Cohere Chat

https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/generative-ai/generative-ai-service/[OCI GenAI Service] offers generative AI chat with on-demand models, or dedicated AI clusters.

The https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/chat-models.htm[OCI Chat Models Page] and https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/use-playground-embed.htm[OCI Generative AI Playground] provide detailed information about using and hosting chat models on OCI.

== Prerequisites

You will need an active https://signup.oraclecloud.com/[Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)] account to use the OCI GenAI Cohere Chat client. The client offers four different ways to connect, including simple authentication with a user and private key, workload identity, instance principal, or OCI configuration file authentication.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OCI GenAI Cohere Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to OCI GenAI.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType |  The type of authentication to use when authenticating to OCI. May be `file`, `instance-principal`, `workload-identity`, or `simple`.  | file
| spring.ai.oci.genai.region | OCI service region. | us-chicago-1
| spring.ai.oci.genai.tenantId | OCI tenant OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.userId | OCI user OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.fingerprint | Private key fingerprint, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.privateKey | Private key content, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.passPhrase | Optional private key passphrase, used when authenticating with `simple` auth and a passphrase protected private key. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.file | Path to OCI config file. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | <user's home directory>/.oci/config
| spring.ai.oci.genai.profile | OCI profile name. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | DEFAULT
| spring.ai.oci.genai.endpoint | Optional OCI GenAI endpoint. | -

|====


==== Configuration Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere` is the property prefix that configures the `ChatModel` implementation for OCI GenAI Cohere Chat.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.enabled | Enable OCI GenAI Cohere chat model.  | true
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.model | Model OCID or endpoint | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.compartment | Model compartment OCID.  | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.servingMode | The model serving mode to be used. May be `on-demand`, or `dedicated`.  | on-demand
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.preambleOverride | Override the chat model's prompt preamble | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.temperature | Inference temperature | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.topP | Top P parameter | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.topK | Top K parameter | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.frequencyPenalty | Higher values will reduce repeated tokens and outputs will be more random. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.presencePenalty | Higher values encourage generating outputs with tokens that haven't been used. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.stop | List of textual sequences that will end completions generation. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.documents | List of documents used in chat context. | -
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-oci-genai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/oci/cohere/OCICohereChatOptions.java[OCICohereChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OCICohereChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        OCICohereChatOptions.builder()
            .model("my-model-ocid")
            .compartment("my-compartment-ocid")
            .temperature(0.5)
        .build()
    ));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OCI GenAI Cohere chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType=file
spring.ai.oci.genai.file=/path/to/oci/config/file
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.compartment=my-compartment-ocid
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.servingMode=on-demand
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.model=my-chat-model-ocid
----

TIP: replace the `file`, `compartment`, and `model` with your values from your OCI account.

This will create a `OCICohereChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final OCICohereChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(OCICohereChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        var prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration
The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-oci-genai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/oci/cohere/OCICohereChatModel.java[OCICohereChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and uses the OCI Java SDK to connect to the OCI GenAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-oci-genai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `OCICohereChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
var CONFIG_FILE = Paths.get(System.getProperty("user.home"), ".oci", "config").toString();
var COMPARTMENT_ID = System.getenv("OCI_COMPARTMENT_ID");
var MODEL_ID = System.getenv("OCI_CHAT_MODEL_ID");

ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider authProvider = new ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider(
        CONFIG_FILE,
        "DEFAULT"
);
var genAi = GenerativeAiInferenceClient.builder()
        .region(Region.valueOf("us-chicago-1"))
        .build(authProvider);

var chatModel = new OCICohereChatModel(genAi, OCICohereChatOptions.builder()
        .model(MODEL_ID)
        .compartment(COMPARTMENT_ID)
        .servingMode("on-demand")
        .build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
        new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `OCICohereChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `OCICohereChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.

Commit message:

Update/remove autoconfiguration enable/disable configurations
 - Since the model autoconfiguration enable/disable flags are no longer used, remove them

   - Currently, the model autoconfigurations can be enabled/disabled via top level Spring AI properties such as spring.ai.model.chat/embedding/image/moderation=<model-provider-name>

   - Update documentation to add note section about this change

- Update note on the autoconfiguration section to point to the configuration changes

- Align the vertex ai text/multimodal keys in line with the other properties

Signed-off-by: Ilayaperumal Gopinathan <ilayaperumal.gopinathan@broadcom.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/chat/oci-genai/cohere-chat.adoc, after:

= OCI GenAI Cohere Chat

https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/generative-ai/generative-ai-service/[OCI GenAI Service] offers generative AI chat with on-demand models, or dedicated AI clusters.

The https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/chat-models.htm[OCI Chat Models Page] and https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/generative-ai/use-playground-embed.htm[OCI Generative AI Playground] provide detailed information about using and hosting chat models on OCI.

== Prerequisites

You will need an active https://signup.oraclecloud.com/[Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)] account to use the OCI GenAI Cohere Chat client. The client offers four different ways to connect, including simple authentication with a user and private key, workload identity, instance principal, or OCI configuration file authentication.

=== Add Repositories and BOM

Spring AI artifacts are published in Maven Central and Spring Snapshot repositories.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#repositories[Repositories] section to add these repositories to your build system.

To help with dependency management, Spring AI provides a BOM (bill of materials) to ensure that a consistent version of Spring AI is used throughout the entire project. Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build system.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====
Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OCI GenAI Cohere Chat Client.
To enable it add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

=== Chat Properties

==== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai` is the property prefix to configure the connection to OCI GenAI.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType |  The type of authentication to use when authenticating to OCI. May be `file`, `instance-principal`, `workload-identity`, or `simple`.  | file
| spring.ai.oci.genai.region | OCI service region. | us-chicago-1
| spring.ai.oci.genai.tenantId | OCI tenant OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.userId | OCI user OCID, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.fingerprint | Private key fingerprint, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.privateKey | Private key content, used when authenticating with `simple` auth. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.passPhrase | Optional private key passphrase, used when authenticating with `simple` auth and a passphrase protected private key. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.file | Path to OCI config file. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | <user's home directory>/.oci/config
| spring.ai.oci.genai.profile | OCI profile name. Used when authenticating with `file` auth. | DEFAULT
| spring.ai.oci.genai.endpoint | Optional OCI GenAI endpoint. | -

|====


==== Configuration Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the chat auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.chat`.
To enable, spring.ai.model.chat=oci-genai (It is enabled by default)
To disable, spring.ai.model.chat=none (or any value which doesn't match oci-genai)
This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere` is the property prefix that configures the `ChatModel` implementation for OCI GenAI Cohere Chat.

[cols="3,5,1", stripes=even]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.model.chat | Enable OCI GenAI Cohere chat model.  | oci-genai
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.enabled (no longer valid) | Enable OCI GenAI Cohere chat model.  | true
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.model | Model OCID or endpoint | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.compartment | Model compartment OCID.  | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.servingMode | The model serving mode to be used. May be `on-demand`, or `dedicated`.  | on-demand
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.preambleOverride | Override the chat model's prompt preamble | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.temperature | Inference temperature | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.topP | Top P parameter | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.topK | Top K parameter | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.frequencyPenalty | Higher values will reduce repeated tokens and outputs will be more random. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.presencePenalty | Higher values encourage generating outputs with tokens that haven't been used. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.stop | List of textual sequences that will end completions generation. | -
| spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.documents | List of documents used in chat context. | -
|====

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options` can be overridden at runtime by adding a request specific <<chat-options>> to the `Prompt` call.

== Runtime Options [[chat-options]]

The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-oci-genai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/oci/cohere/OCICohereChatOptions.java[OCICohereChatOptions.java] provides model configurations, such as the model to use, the temperature, the frequency penalty, etc.

On start-up, the default options can be configured with the `OCICohereChatModel(api, options)` constructor or the `spring.ai.oci.genai.chat.cohere.options.*` properties.

At run-time you can override the default options by adding new, request specific, options to the `Prompt` call.
For example to override the default model and temperature for a specific request:

[source,java]
----
ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
    new Prompt(
        "Generate the names of 5 famous pirates.",
        OCICohereChatOptions.builder()
            .model("my-model-ocid")
            .compartment("my-compartment-ocid")
            .temperature(0.5)
        .build()
    ));
----

== Sample Controller

https://start.spring.io/[Create] a new Spring Boot project and add the `spring-ai-starter-model-oci-genai` to your pom (or gradle) dependencies.

Add a `application.properties` file, under the `src/main/resources` directory, to enable and configure the OCI GenAI Cohere chat model:

[source,application.properties]
----
spring.ai.oci.genai.authenticationType=file
spring.ai.oci.genai.file=/path/to/oci/config/file
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.compartment=my-compartment-ocid
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.servingMode=on-demand
spring.ai.oci.genai.cohere.chat.options.model=my-chat-model-ocid
----

TIP: replace the `file`, `compartment`, and `model` with your values from your OCI account.

This will create a `OCICohereChatModel` implementation that you can inject into your class.
Here is an example of a simple `@Controller` class that uses the chat model for text generations.

[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ChatController {

    private final OCICohereChatModel chatModel;

    @Autowired
    public ChatController(OCICohereChatModel chatModel) {
        this.chatModel = chatModel;
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generate")
    public Map generate(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        return Map.of("generation", chatModel.call(message));
    }

    @GetMapping("/ai/generateStream")
	public Flux<ChatResponse> generateStream(@RequestParam(value = "message", defaultValue = "Tell me a joke") String message) {
        var prompt = new Prompt(new UserMessage(message));
        return chatModel.stream(prompt);
    }
}
----

== Manual Configuration
The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-oci-genai/src/main/java/org/springframework/ai/oci/cohere/OCICohereChatModel.java[OCICohereChatModel] implements the `ChatModel` and uses the OCI Java SDK to connect to the OCI GenAI service.

Add the `spring-ai-oci-genai` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-oci-genai</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file.

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-oci-genai'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create a `OCICohereChatModel` and use it for text generations:

[source,java]
----
var CONFIG_FILE = Paths.get(System.getProperty("user.home"), ".oci", "config").toString();
var COMPARTMENT_ID = System.getenv("OCI_COMPARTMENT_ID");
var MODEL_ID = System.getenv("OCI_CHAT_MODEL_ID");

ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider authProvider = new ConfigFileAuthenticationDetailsProvider(
        CONFIG_FILE,
        "DEFAULT"
);
var genAi = GenerativeAiInferenceClient.builder()
        .region(Region.valueOf("us-chicago-1"))
        .build(authProvider);

var chatModel = new OCICohereChatModel(genAi, OCICohereChatOptions.builder()
        .model(MODEL_ID)
        .compartment(COMPARTMENT_ID)
        .servingMode("on-demand")
        .build());

ChatResponse response = chatModel.call(
        new Prompt("Generate the names of 5 famous pirates."));
----

The `OCICohereChatOptions` provides the configuration information for the chat requests.
The `OCICohereChatOptions.Builder` is fluent options builder.
